AP881218-0003 	X	A 16-year-old student at a private Baptist school who allegedly killed one teacher and wounded another before firing into a filled classroom apparently ``just snapped,'' the school's pastor said. ``I don't know how it could have happened,'' said George Sweet, pastor of Atlantic Shores Baptist Church. ``This is a good, Christian school. We pride ourselves on discipline. Our kids are good kids.'' The Atlantic Shores Christian School sophomore was arrested and charged with first-degree murder, attempted murder, malicious assault and related felony charges for the Friday morning shooting. Police would not release the boy's name because he is a juvenile, but neighbors and relatives identified him as Nicholas Elliott. Police said the student was tackled by a teacher and other students when his semiautomatic pistol jammed as he fired on the classroom as the students cowered on the floor crying ``Jesus save us! God save us!'' Friends and family said the boy apparently was troubled by his grandmother's death and the divorce of his parents and had been tormented by classmates. Nicholas' grandfather, Clarence Elliott Sr., said Saturday that the boy's parents separated about four years ago and his maternal grandmother, Channey Williams, died last year after a long illness. The grandfather also said his grandson was fascinated with guns. ``The boy was always talking about guns,'' he said. ``He knew a lot about them. He knew all the names of them _ none of those little guns like a .32 or a .22 or nothing like that. He liked the big ones.'' The slain teacher was identified as Karen H. Farley, 40. The wounded teacher, 37-year-old Sam Marino, was in serious condition Saturday with gunshot wounds in the shoulder. Police said the boy also shot at a third teacher, Susan Allen, 31, as she fled from the room where Marino was shot. He then shot Marino again before running to a third classroom where a Bible class was meeting. The youngster shot the glass out of a locked door before opening fire, police spokesman Lewis Thurston said. When the youth's pistol jammed, he was tackled by teacher Maurice Matteson, 24, and other students, Thurston said. ``Once you see what went on in there, it's a miracle that we didn't have more people killed,'' Police Chief Charles R. Wall said. Police didn't have a motive, Detective Tom Zucaro said, but believe the boy's primary target was not a teacher but a classmate. Officers found what appeared to be three Molotov cocktails in the boy's locker and confiscated the gun and several spent shell casings. Fourteen rounds were fired before the gun jammed, Thurston said. The gun, which the boy carried to school in his knapsack, was purchased by an adult at the youngster's request, Thurston said, adding that authorities have interviewed the adult, whose name is being withheld pending an investigation by the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The shootings occurred in a complex of four portable classrooms for junior and senior high school students outside the main building of the 4-year-old school. The school has 500 students in kindergarten through 12th grade. Police said they were trying to reconstruct the sequence of events and had not resolved who was shot first. The body of Ms. Farley was found about an hour after the shootings behind a classroom door.
AP880224-0195 	X	The Bechtel Group Inc. offered in 1985 to sell oil to Israel at a discount of at least $650 million for 10 years if it promised not to bomb a proposed Iraqi pipeline, a Foreign Ministry official said Wednesday. But then-Prime Minister Shimon Peres said the offer from Bruce Rappaport, a partner in the San Francisco-based construction and engineering company, was ``unimportant,'' the senior official told The Associated Press. Peres, now foreign minister, never discussed the offer with other government ministers, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The comments marked the first time Israel has acknowledged any offer was made for assurances not to bomb the planned $1 billion pipeline, which was to have run near Israel's border with Jordan. The pipeline was never built. In San Francisco, Tom Flynn, vice president for public relations for the Bechtel Group, said the company did not make any offer to Peres but that Rappaport, a Swiss financier, made it without Bechtel's knowledge or consent. Another Bechtel spokesman, Al Donner, said Bechtel ``at no point'' in development of the pipeline project had anything to do with the handling of the oil. He said proposals submitted by the company ``did not include any specific arrangements for the handling of the oil or for the disposal of the oil once it reached the terminal.'' Asked about Bechtel's disclaimers after they were made in San Francisco, the Israeli Foreign Ministry official said Peres believed Rappaport made the offer for the company. ``Rappaport came to Peres as a representative of Bechtel and said he was speaking on behalf of Bechtel,'' the official said. ``If he was not, he misrepresented himself.'' The Jerusalem Post on Wednesday quoted sources close to Peres as saying that according to Rappaport, Bechtel had said the oil sales would have to be conducted through a third party to keep the sales secret from Iraq and Jordan. The Foreign Ministry official said Peres did not take the offer seriously. ``This is a man who sees 10 people every day,'' he said. ``Thirty percent of them come with crazy ideas. He just says, `Yes, yes. We'll think about it.' That's how things work in Israel.'' The offer appeared to be the one mentioned in a September 1985 memo to Attorney General Edwin Meese III. The memo referred to an arrangement between Peres and Rappaport ``to the effect that Israel will receive somewhere between $65 million and $70 million a year for 10 years.'' The memo from Meese friend E. Robert Wallach, Rappaport's attorney, also states, ``What was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to Labor,'' a reference to the political party Peres leads. The Wallach memo has become the focus of an investigation into whether Meese knew of a possibly improper payment. Peres has denied any wrongdoing and has denounced the memo as ``complete nonsense.'' The Israeli official said Rappaport, a native of Israel and a close friend of Peres, relayed the offer to Peres earlier in September. ``Peres thought the offer was unimportant. For him, the most important thing was to have an Iraqi oil port near Israel's border,'' the official said. ``The thinking was that this would put Iraq in a position where it would not be able to wage war with Israel, out of concern for its pipeline.'' A person answering the telephone at Rappaport's Swiss residence said he was out of town and could not be reached for comment.
AP881017-0144 	X	A gunman took a 74-year-old woman hostage after he was foiled in an attempt to steal $1 million in jewelry belonging to the late Liberace, but police shot and killed the man outside the entertainer's museum. ``I just tried to stay cool,'' said hostage Margaret Bloomberg, who sat down to give police a clear shot at the man and escaped unharmed in Sunday evening's incident at the Liberace Museum. ``The man had a bag of tools, including a crowbar, and was going to smash into the jewelry case,'' said Dora Liberace, administrator of the museum and sister-in-law of the late entertainer. ``He wanted the jewelry and he came prepared to take it.'' Mrs. Bloomberg, who has worked at the museum 10 years, was closing the office when the man appeared, saying he wanted to deliver a plant, Mrs. Liberace said. The man produced a gun, forced his way inside and refused offers of money, Mrs. Bloomberg said. ``Margaret offered him the day's receipts, even offered him the money in her purse, but he wasn't interested,'' Mrs. Liberace said. ``He said `I don't want the cash. I want the jewelry.' He obviously had been in there before and checked out the place. He seemed to know where everything was.'' Mrs. Bloomberg was able to warn a cleaning woman, who slipped out a back door and called police. The gunman tied Mrs. Bloomberg's hands and feet, taped her mouth, then untied her, moved her to another part of the museum and tied her again. ``He was getting ready to pop the jewelry case when he heard a noise outside,'' Mrs. Bloomberg said. ``He went and saw the police. I told him I'd get him out the back door. When we tried that, police were there, too.'' The gunman walked out the front door with a gun pointed at the bound hostage. ``He told police he would shoot me if they didn't let him get to his car,'' she recalled. ``I just tried to stay cool.'' ``She just sat down on the sidewalk, pretending her legs had collapsed under her,'' Mrs. Liberace said. ``He tried to lift her in the car but couldn't. He leaned back for a minute and the police shot him.'' ``When I sat down I figured the police would pick him off, maybe,'' Mrs. Bloomberg said. Mrs. Bloomberg, somewhat shaken and her hands still bearing marks from the ropes, was back at work Monday. ``I thought I was better off working than staying at home and dwelling on it,'' she said. The gunman, identified as Hugh Perry, 47, of Las Vegas, had a lengthy arrest record dating back to the 1960s, said Metro Police Lt. Kyle Edwards. The museum is one of the city's top tourist attractions, featuring memorabilia of the entertainer who gained fame here and retained a home not far away. Mrs. Liberace said the museum has one of the most sophisticated security systems in the city but will now add guards. Liberace, who died in February 1987 of complications due to AIDS, founded the museum 10 years ago to fund the Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, which provides scholarships for music and art students at 27 colleges and universities across the United States.
AP881017-0219 	X	Today is Saturday, Oct. 29, the 303rd day of 1988. There are 63 days left in the year. A reminder: daylight-saving time ends tomorrow at 2 a.m. local time. Clocks ``fall back'' one hour. Today's highlight in history: In 1929, ``Black Tuesday'' descended upon the New York Stock Exchange. Prices collapsed amid panic selling, thousands of investors were wiped out, and America's Great Depression began. On this date: In 1618, Sir Walter Raleigh, the English courtier, military adventurer and poet, was executed in London. In 1682, Pennsylvania founder William Penn landed at what is now Chester, Pa. In 1901, President William McKinley's assassin, Leon Czolgosz, was electrocuted. In 1911, American newspaperman Joseph Pulitzer died in Charleston, S.C. In 1923, the Republic of Turkey was proclaimed. In 1940, Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson drew the first number _ 158 _ in the first peacetime military draft in U.S. history. In 1947, former first lady Frances Cleveland Preston died in Baltimore at age 83. In 1956, Israel launched an invasion of Egypt's Sinai Peninsula. In 1956, ``The Huntley-Brinkley Report'' premiered as NBC's nightly television newscast, replacing ``The Camel News Caravan.'' In 1964, thieves made off with the Star of India and several other priceless gems from the American Museum of Natural History in New York. The Star and most of the other gems were recovered the following year; three men were convicted of stealing them. In 1966, the National Organization for Women was founded. In 1986, Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, Saudi Arabia's oil minister since 1962 and one of the best-known figures of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, was dismissed. Ten years ago: Responding to a rebuke from President Jimmy Carter, Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin reaffirmed his country's right to expand existing Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. Five years ago: The coffins of 16 U.S. servicemen who had been killed in the Beirut truck-bombing on Oct. 23 and the U.S.-led invasion of Grenada arrived at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware. One year ago: Following the confirmation defeat of Robert H. Bork to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court, President Reagan announced his choice of Douglas H. Ginsburg, a nomination that would run into trouble over revelations of Ginsburg's past marijuana use. Today's birthdays: Singer Melba Moore is 43. Actor Richard Dreyfuss is 41. Actress Kate Jackson is 40. Thought for today: ``What one has not experienced, one will never understand in print.'' _ Isadora Duncan, modern dance pioneer (1878-1927).
AP900117-0022 	X	Cupid has a new message for lovers this Valentine's Day and volunteers are lining up to spread the word from Loveland. People around the world send their Valentines through the Loveland post office each year to get the special postmark and cachet verse. Ted Thompson, 85, has been coming up with verses since he and his wife, Mabel, started the remailing program in 1947. An estimated 300,000 people will get Thompson's latest Valentine's verse: ``It might just be a song bird, ``Or perhaps some sparkling dew, ``That brings fond recollections, ``And a timeless cupid too.'' Thompson said recently he's not sure where he got the inspiration. ``It takes the whole year for me to get something I'm satisfied with. It's a hard thing for me. Some people are born to write a verse for you, but that's far away from me.'' Since it stamped 300 pieces of mail its first year, more than 7 million Valentines have passed through the program. The mail is hand-stamped by about 50 senior-citizen volunteers. There's no charge for the extra touch, which begins Monday and continues through Feb. 14.
AP880405-0167 	X	The Reagan administration is weighing whether to invoke a law authorizing the seizure of tax payments made by U.S. businesses operating in Panama, national security adviser Colin Powell said today. Saying that economic sanctions applied so far ``have not yet created enough pressure'' to force the ouster of strongman Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, Powell said ``we are examining additional pressure that might be brought to bear.'' He briefed reporters not long after giving the vacationing President Reagan an update on the Panamanian problem. A senior administration official, disussing Panama on grounds he not be publicly identified, said the United States would encourage any move within the Panamanian Defense Forces to oust Noriega. ``He still is firmly in control, but not as in control as he was, perhaps, a month ago, and every effort we can take to foster that discontent in the PDF, I can assure you we are taking,'' he said. ``If the PDF, after examining the situation, think it would be useful to remove General Noriega, I think that would be a very sound decision for them to take,'' the official said. Powell acknowledged that some corporations operating in Panama have balked at having their tax payments placed in an escrow account because of a concern that it could hamper their operations. For this reason, he said, White House advisers and other administration officials are studying the implications of invoking the International Emergency Economic Powers Act _ which would authorize the government to seize these payments. ``We have to be cautious before you invoke ... because it is a very powerful tool, and the staff back in Washington is examining the pros and cons'' of invoking the act, Powell said. ``And if it is a sensible thing to do, to continue to apply pressure on General Noriega, we will provide that for the president for his consideration.'' Powell refused to discuss any military options being weighed, except he indicated there would be no immediate dispatch of troops beyond the 1,300 deployed to the Central American country early this week. Powell, an Army lieutenant general, said he believes there now is ``a reasonable degree of security'' for Americans living in Panama and the U.S. installations there. Meanwhile, the administration was taking a dim view of Jesse Jackson's contacts with Noriega, despite Jackson's diplomatic coups in the past during visits to Cuba and Syria. Following Jackson's disclosure that he had sent a letter to Noriega two weeks ago asking him to resign, State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley said Monday that such communications could prolong Noriega's grip on power. ``The proliferation of channels is a tactic Noriega uses to buy time,'' Ms. Oakley said. ``We have available channels of communication with Noriega if and when they are needed. We think it would be best to continue to use these channels exclusively.'' White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater, traveling with Reagan in California, also criticized the Democratic presidential candidate's involvement in Panama. ``We have a bipartisan coordinated plan for dealing with Noriega,'' he said. ``That's why it's important to Congress and the public, and we believe it's been working.'' Jackson has dealt successfully in the past with other U.S. adversaries. In 1984, he traveled to Cuba and persuaded President Fidel Castro to release 26 political prisoners. He later went to Syria and, during talks with President Hafez Assad, won freedom for an American military pilot detained there. His efforts earned him an enthusiastic White House welcome. Jackson said he has no plans to travel to Panama to try to help resolve the 6-week-old crisis in that country. About 1,300 Army soldiers and Marines were headed to Panama today, joining the 10,000 troops stationed at the U.S. Southern Command in Panama. The Pentagon said the soldiers are being sent to increase security for Americans and U.S. facilities in Panama. In a related development, a former Panamanian official told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Monday that Noriega probably has evidence of complicity by U.S. officials in Central American drug trafficking. Jose I. Blandon produced a document Noriega sent to the country's U.S. diplomatic offices in February saying he has proof that American officials knowingly established policies that supported people in the drug business. Blandon, a former intelligence official and consul general who defected last year, mentioned Panama, Guatemala and Costa Rica. Jackson says he agrees with the Reagan administration that Noriega should step down, but he has accused U.S. officials of overkill in trying to achieve that goal through economic sanctions that have contributed to economic paralysis in Panama. Jackson, appearing Monday in Milwaukee, renewed his call for Noriega to leave Panama and released a letter in which Noriega rejected ``any political and economic program that will be dictated from Washington, D.C.'' ``My duration as commander and chief of the defense forces is governed by the Panamanian constitution and law of the defense forces,'' Noriega's letter said. While releasing the letter, Jackson renewed his call for Noriega to go into exile. ``I remain convinced that it is in the best interests of the Panamanian people for General Noriega to leave,'' Jackson said. ``Today I reiterate my public moral appeal for him to depart.''
AP880825-0239 	X	More than 120,000 skins of a protected species of alligator were smuggled into Japan during the past seven months using stolen or falsified export documents, a wildlife protection organization said Thursday. Traffic Japan, the wildlife trade monitoring group of the World Wide Fund for Nature, said the South American caiman skins were shipped by a complex route involving at least seven South American and Asian countries before they arrived in Japan. At least 46 tons of the skins, from more than 120,000 alligators, entered Japan in the first seven months of this year through Thailand alone, the group said. It said it believed the skins were part of a larger shipment that was loaded onto Asia-bound ships off the coast of Uruguay at the end of last year. The declared customs value of the skins was about 427 million yen (about $3.2 million), ``but retail value would be four to five times more,'' spokeswoman Cecila Song said. The skins are used in Japan mainly for belts and watchbands. Permits are required for the export of South American caiman skins under the regulations of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), an international treaty regulating trade in protected plants and animals, Song said. Japanese officials allowed the shipments to enter the country without proper verification of the export documents, the group said in a statement. ``Traffic's 8-month investigation has revealed a serious lapse of CITES administration in Thailand and Japan, and has uncovered a long paper trail of illegal CITES documents and other ploys involving Thailand, Colombia, Chile, Venezuela and Singapore to mask the illegal origins of the poached skins,'' the statement said. It said Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry had responded to evidence of illegal caiman trade by instituting a new voluntary check system on all imports of the skins. ``But unless they come up with a system involving legal penalties, we don't think there will be any improvement, especially with the high profits involved,'' Song said. Ministry officials were not available Thursday night for comment.
AP880325-0232 	X	There will be no organized union boost behind a single candidate in Saturday's Democratic caucuses in Michigan, a state where union members can wield more clout than almost anywhere else. While national labor leaders are assuming Michael Dukakis will be the eventual nominee, they are prevented from endorsing him by what appears to be growing rank-and-file support for Jesse Jackson, who has gotten more union votes than any of the other candidates in primaries so far. Richard Gephardt also has considerable union support. None of the Democratic candidates appears to have won the hearts _ or votes _ of a majority of the state's 750,000 rank-and-file union workers, nearly half of them members of the United Auto Workers.
AP880908-0056 	X	Here is a summary of developments in forest and brush fires in Western states:
AP881105-0097 	X	Jean-Pierre Stirbois, the No. 2 man in the extreme-right National Front after party leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, died Saturday in an automobile accident, police said. He was 43. Stirbois attended a political meeting Friday in the city of Dreux, about 60 miles west of Paris, and was traveling toward the capital when his car ran off the road and smashed into a tree at about 2:40 a.m, police said. Stirbois was secretary-general of the National Front and a member of the party leadership since 1981. He was born Jan. 30, 1945 in Paris, held degrees in law and marketing and headed his own printing business. Stirbois was active in several extreme-right political movements before joining the National Front in 1977. In 1982, he won 12.6 percent of the vote in local elections in the district of Eure-et-Loir, west of Paris _ the highest vote percentage in France for a right-wing candidate. A year and a half later, he won the election for deputy mayor of Dreux. Stirbois was elected a deputy in the National Assembly in 1986. He lost his seat in legislative elections last summer. The National Front, founded by Le Pen in 1972, is strongly opposed to France's highly centralized and bureaucratic government and is against personal taxes. It favors the death penalty, priority to French citizens for jobs, and stopping immigration. In the first round of this year's presidential elections, Le Pen won a surprising 14.4 percent of the vote, worrying many who feared the National Front could awaken racist sentiments.
AP880716-0112 	X	At least 15 people died and 25,000 residents of Surat town were evacuated after torrential rains flooded the west Indian town, United News of India reported Friday. UNI said the victims lived in slum localities which were the worst affected in the deluge Thursday night. It said 25,000 slum residents lost their homes in the floods and were moved to relief camps. Surat in Gujarat state is 560 miles southwest of New Delhi. At least 50 people have drowned or died in collapsed houses across India since the monsoon broke this month, newspapers reported. Worst affected are northeastern Assam state and eastern Bihar state.
AP880608-0142 	X	Actress Betty Buckley sang ``They Can't Take That Away from Me'' at a Shubert Theater service Wednesday for George Rose, an actor killed May 4 at his vacation home in the Dominican Republic. ``George Rose was a teacher of mine. He was the epitome of elegance and high standards. I can only aspire to his standards,'' said Miss Buckley, who was a star with Rose in ``The Mystery of Edwin Drood.'' Rose, 68, was born in England but lived since 1961 in New York, nearly always working on Broadway. He won Tony Awards as the chairman in ``Drood'' and as Doolittle in a revival of ``My Fair Lady.'' Rupert Holmes, who composed ``Drood,'' said, ``His presence was a beam that lifts the ceiling of theater.'' Maureen McGovern, who played Rose's daughter for a year in ``The Pirates of Penzance,'' sang a vocalise by Faure which was a particular favorite of the actor. Actor Jack Gilford said, ``I never failed to marvel at Rose's honesty, depth, humor, skill and charm.'' Judy Kaye, who won a Tony on Sunday for ``The Phantom of the Opera,'' called Rose ``one of the best actors who ever walked the planet.'' Howard McGillan, who was in ``Drood'' and now is in ``Anything Goes,'' sang ``It's De-Lovely.'' Larry Kert, who said he and Rose walked their dogs together for 17 years, sang ``Anyone Can Whistle.''
AP881110-0228 	X	For three years, Charles S. Robb was out of the spotlight that had become so familiar, first as the son-in-law of President Lyndon Johnson and then as Democratic governor of this conservative state. But on Tuesday, the 49-year-old lawyer re-entered the national arena in decisive style, fashioning a huge victory over Republican long-shot Maurice Dawkins, a retired black minister and Washington lobbyist. Robb said today he won because ``we attempted to identify with mainstream values that are crucial to success at the national level,'' such as strong defense and fiscal responsibility. With 99 percent of the precincts counted, Robb had 1,448,389 votes or 71 percent, to Dawkins' 587,887 votes or 29 percent. The former Marine combat officer has built a career by making Democrats electable in conservative Virginia. Once known only as the former White House military social aide who married LBJ's daughter, Lynda Bird Johnson, he won the lieutenant governor's race in 1977 in his first bid for elective office. Four years later, he ran for governor in the first sweep by Democrats of the state's top three offices since 1965. Robb was a popular governor who was credited with overhauling the state bureaucracy and making major gains in education funding. He also opened positions of authority in state government to blacks and women and appointed Virginia's first black Supreme Court member. The former governor was also one of the architects of last spring's Super Tuesday presidential primary, intended in part to give the Southern vote collective strength. But Robb's tenure was shaken by prison troubles that drew national attention when six death row inmates escaped in May 1984. Robb, who could not succeed himself under Virginia's constitution, had been out of office for three years and practicing law until his bid for the Senate. ``I've been unemployed for a long time, and it looks like I just got a job,'' he said.
AP900802-0166 	X	An article in the August issue of the glossy Washington society magazine Dossier profiling the capital's ambassadors wound up its column on Iraq's Mohamed Sadiq Al-Mashat with the note that Congress had been considering sanctions against Iraq. It concluded: ``Amid all this, Iraq's man in Washington says his priority is reversing a tide of unflattering press reports about his country.''
AP881214-0257 	X	The operating rate at U.S. factories, mines and utilities in November rose to the highest level in nine years, the government said today in a report likely to heighten concern about inflation. The Federal Reserve Board said the use of industrial capacity rose 0.2 percentage points to 84.2 percent last month, the highest since 84.3 percent in November 1979. It was the seventh increase in eight months. As capacity use edges toward 85 percent, economists fear factories will have trouble producing enough goods to meet demand, leading to shortages and price increases. In an accompanying report, the Federal Reserve said industrial production climbed a brisk 0.5 percent in November following an identical 0.5 percent rise in October. The Fed's industrial production index now stands at 139.9 percent of its 1977 base, reflecting gains in light truck manufacturing and production of equipment for businesses. The jumps in capacity use and the production index were in line with economists' expectations. Most government statistics have portrayed a robust economy in October and November, particularly in the manufacturing sector, which has been bolstered by strong export sales caused by the lower value of the dollar, which makes U.S. goods more affordable on overseas markets. At manufacturing plants, the operating rate climbed to 84.5 percent last month, up from 84.3 percent in October. Producers of both durable goods _ ``big ticket'' items ranging from bicycles to battleships _ and non-durable goods reported higher rates. The rate at durable goods plants was 83.1 percent in November, up from 82.9 percent. Non-durable goods producers recorded a 0.1 percentage point gain to 86.5 percent. The Fed said the operating rate for primary metals industries jumped to 92.4 percent, the highest since December 1978. Most of the increase was attributed to increases at steel mills. Use of motor vehicle and parts manufacturing capacity rose for the fourth consecutive month to 85.4 percent, reflecting gains in light truck production. Automobile plants, a subcategory, slipped to 76.7 percent, down from 77.0 percent. The operating rate at utilities was 81.0 percent in November, up from 80.8 percent. It had hit a peak for the year in August of 83.9 percent because of a surge in electricity use for air conditioning. In the mining sector, which includes oil and gas drilling, the operating rate increased to 82.2 percent last month. It was 81.6 percent in October. The Federal Reserve's production index has not declined since September 1987, a reflection of the export-driven manufacturing boom. A related surge in spending for capital equipment to expand and modernize factories has accompanied the boom. Production in the manufacturing sector rose 0.5 percent in November, following an even stronger 0.6 percent gain in October. The Fed said automobiles were assembled at an annual rate of 7.6 million units, down slightly from October. But production of business equipment rose 0.4 percent following a flat month in October and stood 8.8 percent higher than a year ago. Output at mines, which includes oil and gas drilling, rose 0.6 percent in November after three consecutive declines. Production at utilities increased 0.4 percent, on top of a 0.6 percent jump in October. Total output at factories, mines and utilities was 5.1 percent higher than a year ago.
AP880401-0081 	X	Ferrets are increasingly popular as pets, but the weasel-like animals can be dangerous to young children, two doctors say. In three unprovoked attacks, two babies had their ears bitten off by ferrets and required constructive surgery and a third infant suffered scratches and bites requiring 39 stitches, John W. Paisley and Brian A. Lauer write in today's Journal of the American Medical Association. ``Two of the children were asleep in their cribs when they were bitten,'' the two University of Colorado School of Medicine doctors said. ``Although ferrets are increasingly popular pets, we believe that they are not suitable pets for families with small children,'' said the doctors, who claim Americans own more than a million ferrets and are buying them at the rate of 50,000 a year. All the babies recovered, the doctors said, adding that reports of severe injuries caused by ferrets are few. But ``a ferret may bite so tenaciously that it has to be pried off or killed to loosen its hold,'' the doctors said. One of the animals in the attacks described had to be killed before it would release the child, they said. The incidence of ferret bites is unknown because most states do not require bites to be reported to health officials, the doctors said. During an 11-month period in Arizona, the ratio of reported bites to the estimated pet population was 0.3 percent for ferrets, compared with 0.4 percent for cats and 2.2 percent for dogs, they said. Sale or ownership of pet ferrets is prohibited in California, Georgia, New Hampshire, New York City and Washington, D.C., the doctors said. A ban also has been proposed in North Carolina.
AP901009-0094 	X	George Strait's path is clear. From Entertainer of the Year, to North Dakota, to Kansas and then back to the ranch. That's where music business success is leading the soft-speaking, hard-singing Texan. Backstage Monday night at the Country Music Association's awards ceremony, Strait smiled from under his black hat and talked about how it's been. ``It's hard not to be affected by this stuff. It's great,'' said Strait, who won the CMA's top award the second consecutive year. Strait, like most country acts, will tour small towns and cities across the naton this winter. But Strait will stop after 80 or so appearances and return to his ranch in early November. ``I made up my mind I wasn't going to tour as much,'' said Strait, known outside the country industry for his TV beer commercials. Members of the fast-rising group Kentucky HeadHunters figure two awards means they won't have to cut their hair. Their locks were longer than anyone's at the awards ceremony - except for Crystal Gayle's. ``Does this mean we get to keep our hair?'' asked Greg Martin, one of five HeadHunters taking home crystal trophies for Album of the Year, ``Pickin' on Nashville,'' and for Vocal Group of the Year. The only other double winner was Garth Brooks, with the Horizon Award (for career development) and Music Video of the Year for ``The Dance.'' Tennessee Ernie Ford was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame, an honor that made the 71-year-old singer consider the youth of some other winners. ``These people who performed tonight, I've got neckties older than they are,'' Ford said on the nationally televised awards presentation. Clint Black won Male Vocalist of the Year and Kathy Mattea won top female vocalist honors. The Judds, Wynonna and mother Naomi, picked up Vocal Duo of the Year award. Single of the Year went to Vince Gill for ``When I Call Your Name.'' Vocal Event of the Year, for performers who do not normally sing together, went to Lorrie Morgan and her late husband, Keith Whitley. Song of the Year, a songwriter's award, was given to Jon Vezner and Don Henry for ``Where've You Been.'' Johnny Gimble received Musician of the Year award.
AP881108-0081 	X	Republican nominee George Bush said he felt nervous as he voted today in his adopted home state of Texas, where he ended his presidential campaign telling voters the election is a referendum on a ``philosophy, a way of life.'' The vice president and his wife, Barbara, voted in a hotel conference room which had been set up as a polling place. The couple then visited a local Republican headquarters to talk to people working to get out the vote. Emerging from the voting booth, Bush was asked how he felt. ``Nervous ... everytime I vote here, I feel nervous,'' he said. Asked about the outcome, he replied, ``No predictions.'' At the GOP headquarters, Bush personally made a half-dozen telephone calls. ``No, I'm not kidding,'' he told one person who apparently expressed skepticism that Bush was on the line. ``Having done all the hard work, now the key is to get the vote out,'' he said. The vice president also showed off his French to a reporter from France. ``Je peux parler un peu de francais,'' he said, explaining he could speak the language a little. He added he felt ``tres heureux, aujourd'hui,'' or ``very happy, today.'' Bush told reporters he was ``very glad'' the campaign was over. He planned a ``relaxed family day'' with ``a lot of exercise.'' He planned to watch election returns on television with family members and friends at his home in a Houston condominium-hotel complex. Bush wrapped up his campaign Monday with a final swing through Michigan, Ohio and Missouri. He attended a raucus rally Monday evening at the Galleria shopping mall where country stars Loretta Lynn, Crystal Gayle and Mo Bandy entertained several thousand fans. Today's election is ``more than just a referendum on peace and prosperity,'' Bush told the crowd. ``It's a referendum on a philosophy, a way of life that's well and alive right here deep in the heart of Texas,'' he said. In a half-hour paid TV advertisment Monday night, the Republican presidential nominee summed up the themes of his campaign and said rival Michael Dukakis ``has no experience in national security affairs.'' ``I don't believe we can take a risk on an issue as important as our national security,'' he said on the ad broadcast on the three major networks right after Dukakis aired a half-hour spot of his own. Later, a soft-speaking Bush talked to viewers for a few minutes at the end of the half-hour commercial that featured biographical and campaign scenes set to music and narration, as well as an endorsement by President Reagan and various Bush family members. ``I respect my opponent, I admire his devotion to family, and I appreciate his decision to enter public service,'' Bush said. ``But I do believe we are guided by fundamentally different philosophies, a great divide, an honest difference of opinion on which approach will lead America in the '90s stronger and more secure than ever.'' Bush also echoed President Reagan's 1980 campaign line by saying, ``If you elect me president you will be better off four years from now than you are today.'' The ad made no mention of Bush's running mate, Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana, whose qualifications have been an issue in the campaign. Bush appeared in a jovial mood Monday as nationwide polls showed him holding his lead over Dukakis. Accompanied by his top campaign advisers, Bush spent the final campaign day addressing rallies in a suburb of Detroit, in rural Ashland, Ohio, and in St. Louis. While calling on voters to reject the ``failed liberal policies of the past,'' Bush also seemed in a reflective mood as he talked about what the campaign meant to him and what he sees ahead. ``Sometimes there's ups,'' he said. ``Sometimes there's downs. Sometimes you get written off by all the great experts and sometimes you bounce back. ``But I'll tell you where you get your strength, you get your strength from travelling around the United States of America and meeting and visiting with and listening to the heartbeat that comes from the American people themselves.'' Bush said he was confident that the negativism of the campaign would soon be behind him. ``What I will do is trust the good judgment of the American people who immediately shift gears and start looking to the future,'' he said in an interview with radio reporters.
AP880428-0304 	X	Enron Corp., the nation's largest natural gas transmission company, said Thursday it was considering the sale of its oil and gas subsidiary, one of the biggest U.S. independent oil and gas concerns. ``Based upon prices paid in recent transactions for oil and gas reserves, the sale of all or part of EOG (Enron Oil & Gas Co.) would strengthen substantially Enron's financial position and provide the flexibility to pursue very attractive opportunities we see in the energy business,'' said Kenneth L. Lay, Enron chairman. Enron Oil & Gas had reserves of 1.42 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 42.3 million barrels of oil as of the end of 1987. For the entire year, it sold an average of 343 million cubic feet of natural gas and 12,000 barrels of oil per day. For the first three months of 1988, that rate has risen to 399 million cubic feet of gas and 13,000 barrels of oil, the company said. ``Assuming completion of a sale, we will be realizing for our shareholders the tremendous value inherent in these assets under current favorable market conditions,'' Lay said. He said proceeds from a sale would be used to reduce Enron's indebtedness and interest expense and enhance near-term earnings and future cash flow. Lay, speaking at Enron's annual meeting Thursday, said debt reduction was a major goal for 1988. Debt as a percentage of capitalization stood at 75.6 at the end of 1987 and was reduced to 67 percent by the end of the first quarter. Enron earlier Thursday reported first-quarter earnings of $69.4 million, or $1.20 per share, compared with $62.7 million, or $1.06 per share, for the year-earlier period. ``Among the primary causes was a return to more normal winter temperature patterns than the relatively warm heating seasons of the last three years,'' Lay said. ``The colder weather, resulting in increased natural gas use, was coupled with higher average prices for gas, which also proved beneficial to earnings.'' In releasing the financial figures, the company restated earnings for 1987 to reflect adoption of changed accounting rules, reducing 1987's reported first quarter earnings by $3.9 million, reflecting a lower federal income tax benefit due to a tax rate change relative to depreciation and amortization expenses.
AP900817-0118 	X	NASA scientists rejoiced at ``pretty damn good'' test photos from the Magellan probe today but also grappled with communications difficulties as the spacecraft circled Venus. Fifteen hours after the spacecraft lost contact with Earth on Thursday evening, the signal was re-established. But the signal failed again at midday and was expected to continue to be a problem until scientists could send Magellan new instructions on how to properly aim at Earth, officials said. Meanwhile, project manager Tony Spear said the test pictures collected from the spacecraft's radar mapper before the problems developed had produced ``some raw images that looked pretty damn good.'' He said NASA will release the first pictures on Monday instead of waiting until September. Thursday's test returned far more pictures than expected, including several so-called ``noodles,'' or areas of the planet about 1,000 miles long by 15 miles wide, project scientist Steve Saunders said. The pictures show ``lava flows and faults and fractures and cinder cones with craters in the top,'' Saunders said. Scientists at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory were concerned when they did not hear from Magellan as expected at 8:32 p.m. Thursday. But they stressed that the spacecraft is loaded with computer programs that automatically help it find Earth if contact is lost. Originally, scientists had expected that the outage would continue until this evening. But late this morning, as scientists were were conducting a news conference about the problem, Magellan manager Steve Wall rushed in with word that NASA's Deep Space Network station at Goldstone, Calif., had re-established contact with the spacecraft and locked onto its signal. ``It is Magellan,'' Wall said. ``The spacecraft looks healthy.'' The second loss of contact a short time afterward was not entirely unexpected, Spear said. Scientists now expect the spacecraft to be in and out of touch until controllers can send it new instructions on how to properly aim at Earth, he said. However, the second signal loss blunted some of the sense of relief at hearing from Magellan after the overnight silence. Wall said engineers had been out of contact with the spacecraft Thursday night as it fixed on two stars, a procedure Magellan routinely performs to make sure it is pointed properly. NASA should have heard from Magellan at 8:32 p.m. PDT Thursday when this ``star calibration'' was completed, but ``we did not re-establish contact,'' JPL spokesman Jim Doyle said. The last previous radio contact with the craft had been at Deep Space Network stations at Goldstone and in Australia. ``The assumption is that after it made a star calibration, it looked at the wrong star and then couldn't point back to Earth accurately,'' Doyle said. ``Then, the contact was lost.'' Project officials believe the spacecraft detected an unknown onboard problem and entered a protective ``safing mode'' in which it orients itself toward the sun so its solar array will continue to receive power and find a guide star, said Doyle. From that position, it was programmed to automatically start a routine of locating the sun, then searching for Earth, Wall said. The problem with Magellan comes in the wake of NASA's troubles with the flawed Hubble Space Telescope and with hydrogen fuel leaks that temporarily grounded the space shuttle fleet. Magellan's formal mission to map the surface of Venus is supposed to start Aug. 29. Contact was lost after Magellan started a two-day test meant to make sure the spaceship's radar can make pictures of Venus and to adjust the radar waves so the pictures are focused, said lab official Ed Sherry. Venus, the second planet from the sun, is covered by thick clouds that prevent optical cameras from seeing its rugged landscape. Magellan's $744 million mission will use radar to penetrate the clouds, then collect the reflected waves to make the best maps and pictures yet of Earth's nearest planetary neighbor. The spacecraft was launched from the shuttle Atlantis 15 months ago and went into orbit around Venus a week ago after a roundabout 948-million-mile journey. At least 20 U.S. and Soviet spacecraft have visited Venus, including some that landed and photographed a small area of landscape. Magellan will yield a global map. Its radar was designed to distinguish surface features as small as two football fields, a level of detail 10 times better than in pictures made by radar on two Soviet spacecraft that were launched in 1983.
AP880802-0073 	X	A suspect bit the ear of a 4-year-old police dog and injured the animal's neck during a chase and arrest, police said today. The dog, Rex, was on patrol with Constable Philip Rajah in the Natal provincial capital during the weekend when they came across two ``suspicious individuals,'' police said. While Rajah searched one man, Rex chased the other _ and got the worst of it when his quarry turned on the animal and bit him. Rajah had to yank the man off the dog, police said. They said the dog was being treated for a serious neck injury at a veterinary clinic. The man who bit the dog may face a charge of malicious injury to state property.
AP880712-0030 	X	The Nikkei Stock Average closed at 28,099.84 points, up 113.85 points, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Tuesday.
AP880909-0059 	X	Here is a brief summary of forest and grassland fires active Thursday in the West:
AP900422-0033 	X	A biography of the elusive Greta Garbo will finally be published after being locked in a vault for 14 years. ``Garbo'' was written by the late novelist and poet Antoni Gronowicz. Publisher Simon & Schuster said the company acquired the book in 1976 on the understanding that it would not be published while the actress was alive. Garbo died April 15 at the age of 84. Much of the book is told in Garbo's own words as she talked to Gronowicz, with whom she became friends in 1938. The book ``tells of her relationship with her discoverer, mentor and lover Mauritz Stiller; and deals with her long and not always happy years as the greatest and most reluctant of movie queens,'' the publisher said in a statement. It also deals with the men in her life, John Gilbert, Robert Montgomery, Robert Taylor, Charles Boyer, Melvyn Douglas and others. ``In the book, Gronowicz also recalls Miss Garbo talking about the often rumored fact that `women pursued (her) more often and more persistently' than did men,'' the statement said.
AP900405-0243 	X	Bank of New England Corp. is cutting 5,600 workers and slashing $300 million in costs, but the troubled company admits that even with the cuts its future is in doubt. The bank, operating under government orders for more than a month, announced the cost-cutting plan Wednesday. But the institution also filed federal documents this week saying it expects to see an increase in troubled loans. Furthermore, the bank acknowledged its future may hinge on whether the slumping New England economy continues to decline. ``Continued deterioration in the New England economy and the real estate market could adversely impact the corporation's recovery efforts,'' the bank said. The job reductions, which will lower the workforce by about one-third, will come through a combination of layoffs, attrition and asset sales. The bank also has frozen hiring, eliminated financial bonuses and suspended raises for bank officers. Analysts said that although the moves should strengthen the bank, its footing remains extremely shaky. The bank gave a similar assessment in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission this week. ``If the corporation is unsuccessful in addressing the corporation's current difficulties, it is likely that external assistance from third parties and@or regulatory authorities will be required,'' the bank said. Bank of New England lost more than $1 billion last year, due largely to bad real estate loans. The bank said that in addition to $2.2 billion in non-performing assets reported at the end of 1989, it had $1 billion in loans that were still performing but where borrowers were experiencing some financial difficulty. The bank said it expects non-performing assets will increase in the first quarter. That could be a sign that problems could be spreading outside the bank's real estate portfolio into other business loans, said Gerard Cassidy, an analyst with Tucker Anthony Inc. ``The key is the economy,'' he said. ``The New England economy is not cooperating.'' The bank said it would lay off about 1,700 employees and would notify them over the next several days. ``These decisions were difficult and they are painful for all of us,'' bank Chairman Lawrence K. Fish said in a letter to employees. ``But difficult as these steps are, it is essential that we take them now to assure our future viability and our ability to rebuild as a stronger, though smaller, Bank of New England,'' he said. ``At the same time, our primary concern as we rebuild is customer service and maintenance of the highest possible credit quality,'' Fish said. An earlier staff reduction plan was canceled by Fish after he was named chairman on March 9. At the time, he ordered a thorough review of the organization's direction, structure, and personnel needs. Personnel cuts, asset sales and other measures are expected to reduce annual operating expenses by approximately $300 million, the bank said. Bank officials said the action was being taken as part of a strategic plan outlining new directions for the corporation. Details of the plan are expected next week. The bank last month announced it had signed federal orders that set tight guidelines for lending practices and other operations. James Moynihan, senior vice president of Advest Inc. in Boston, predicted the bank eventually will sell off all its subsidiaries in Connecticut, Maine and Rhode Island. ``In order to survive, they will have to become a Massachusetts-only bank,'' he said. The results, if successful, would be a ``very competitive bank'' with assets below $20 billion, compared with a $32 billion level last year. The bank said its new strategic plan will try to concentrate on primary banking and lending businesses. Other operations will be eliminated, including processing services, large corporate banking outside of New England, leasing and discount brokerage services. The bank also disclosed that it was being sued in federal court in Pennsylvania by the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co., which has a $10 million, 14 percent Bank of New England bank note due in 1996. Penn Mutual maintains the bank's asset sales breached covenants in the note. The insurance company asked the court to order the bank to speed up its principal payments. The bank also faces a lawsuit from shareholders who claim company executives misrepresented the bank's financial status by not disclosing the mounting troubles sooner last year.
AP900828-0055 	X	The U.S. Army's heaviest ground firepower reached Saudi soil today for deployment behind Arab forces manning the front line in the monthlong standoff with Iraq. Dozens of M1-1P tanks and M2 Bradley armored infantry fighting vehicles, and scores more heavy support vehicles, rolled off two huge transport ships at a port in northeastern Saudi Arabia and were readied for the trip north into the desert. The M1s are by the far the biggest ground weapon in the burgeoning U.S. arsenal in Saudi Arabia, weighing an imposing 60 tons and carrying a 105 mm cannon said to be accurate at 6,600 feet or more. The huge but speedy tanks _ which can travel about 45 mph _ left the 24th Infantry (Mechanized) Division's home in Georgia two weeks ago. The 24th's heavy firepower will be deployed in front of most other U.S ground forces in Saudi Arabia but still a good distance behind the Saudi-led Arab forces, which are just miles from the border with occupied Kuwait. The U.S. buildup _ which could reach 200,000-250,000 ground forces _ is not expected to be completed until October. Transport planes are arriving around the clock, but the M1s and the 24th's other heavy weaponry have been long awaited by U.S. military commanders. Until now, the U.S.-led multinational Saudi defense force has been short on heavy ground firepower. ``This is boss,'' Sgt. Ronald Ruff said as he showed off his M1 to a group of reporters. ``This is the Cadillac model. This is the top of the line.'' Up to now, the only U.S. tanks in Saudi Arabia have been Vietnam era M60s, brought by the 7th Marine Expeditionary Brigade, and even smaller M551 Sheridans. Iraq has a formidable force of Soviet-made tanks, primarily the export versions of its T64 and T72 models. The T64 is comparable in armament and armor to the M1s that arrived today; the T72 is equivalent to the more modern M1, the M1-A1. The U.S. tanks are considered to have superior weapons sighting and guidance systems, and the strategy for any tank war with Iraq is to use the air superiority of the American, Saudi and British forces to inflict heavy early damage on Iraqi tanks. ``There's no doubt in my mind that we'll succeed here if we have to,'' said Lt. Col. Barry Willey. ``Bring them (the Iraqis) on,'' Ruff said. ``We've the training and technology; they've got the numbers. We'll take them out.'' Several M1 crews said they will have to clean and change the M1's filters more often because of the talcum-like sand of the Saudi desert.
AP880428-0225 	X	The Sandinista government proposed on Thursday that the two-month cease-fire be extended by 30 days to allow negotiators to work out an enduring peace with rebels, but the rebels immediately said no. Azucena Ferrey, spokeswoman for the rebels, known as the Contras, said the Sandinista proposal ``shows they lack good will.'' She noted in a telephone interview that the current cease-fire expires at the end of May, and said that ``if they want to extend it (the cease-fire) they can propose it then.'' Gen. Humberto Ortega, the defense minister and the leader of the leftist government's delegation to the peace talks, told reporters such an extension ``will help improve the conditions under which the negotiations are taking place so that an overall agreement can be discussed to reach a final accord.'' The 60-day provisional truce, which started April 1, is part of an agreement reached by the U.S.-backed rebels and the Sandinistas at the southern border post of Sapoa on March 23. During the truce the two sides are to attempt to negotiate an end to the 6{-year-old conflict that has cost more than 26,000 lives, by government estimates. Ortega, the brother of President Daniel Ortega, announced the offer shortly before the delegations resumed high-level political talks. The government also offered Thursday to let the International Red Cross administer humanitarian aid immediately to the Contras even before rebel combatants gather inside safe zones established during previous talks. The Sandinista proposal was read by Deputy Foreign Minister Victor Hugo Tinoco, who said the offer was ``an attempt to facilitate the pacification process.'' Sandinista and Contra negotiators previously agreed upon seven safe zones in which the Contra fighters are to collect. The two sides differed over operational conditions inside the zones, however, and the rebels have yet to gather inside them. The three-day negotiating session marks only the second time the two sides have met in Managua since the war began in 1981. Recent reports have said that the Contra leadership is divided, with the rebel military commanders opposing any immediate agreement with the Sandinistas. President Ortega on Wednesday predicted an agreement can be reached if both sides bargain in good faith. However, the Sandinistas and the Contras remain far apart on essential issues. Humberto Ortega accused the rebel commanders of taking part in the talks ``not with the purpose of reaching agreement'' but to buy time. American and other sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said rebel leader Adolfo Calero tried unsuccessfully to oust the top rebel military commander, Enrique Bermudez, a week ago. A U.S. official said the Contra directors split 2-2 with one abstention on whether to remove Bermudez. He ostensibly takes orders from the five-member civilian directorate but believes he should have more influence over rebel decisions, the sources said. Calero argues that civilian control over the movement is essential and sees Bermudez as a threat to that objective. In an effort to dispel rumors of disunity, Bermudez and other Contra leaders issued a statement in Miami on Wednesday declaring support for the talks. Calero, in a telephone interview Thursday, denied there was any split in rebel ranks. ``There are obviously sectors who would be interested in there being such a split,'' he said.
AP881016-0046 	X	Cuban authorities have broken up a black market ring that operated out of a major Havana food store, a government news report said Sunday. Police officers arrested ``numerous hoarders and resellers of basic necessities,'' Prensa Latina, the official Cuban news agency, said in a report monitored in Mexico City. Employees of Mercado Amistad, Havana's largest grocery, were believed to have been involved in a scheme that allowed the illegal resale of large quantities of basic goods at inflated prices, Prensa Latina said. Also, some of those arrested allegedly ``sold places in (the grocery store) line to the highest bidder and in this way earned more than a worker,'' the report said. ``The scarcity of various products caused by distribution, organization, inefficiency and bureaucratic problems, plus the lack of foreign exchange, encourages the proliferation of speculators,'' Prensa Latina said. The market, where consumers often wait in long lines for scarce goods, is in the old Sears, Roebuck and Co. building that was nationalized after the 1959 Cuban Revolution. Private enterprise has been all but eliminated on the communist island. Two years ago, the government ended experimental farmers' markets that had allowed growers to sell surpluses.
AP900413-0159 	X	The Soviet Union apologized Friday for one of the grisliest crimes of the Stalin era: the murder of thousands of imprisoned Polish officers shot during World War II and buried in mass graves in the Katyn Forest. The confession ended nearly 50 years of official Soviet denial and had been almost a prerequisite for improved Polish-Soviet relations. The Soviet Union previously insisted that Nazi Germany was responsible for the massacre. Polish and Western historians long have blamed the NKVD, Josef Stalin's secret police, for killing more than 4,000 officers in the Katyn Forest near Smolensk. They were captured by the Soviets at the beginning of World War II. More than 10,000 other Polish officers were killed in camps elsewhere. Their bodies have never been found, but in its statement Friday the Soviet Union clearly tied together the fates of all 15,000 officers, some of the cream of prewar Polish society. The admission came 47 years to the day when the Nazis announced the discovery of the Katyn graves. And it came one day after East Germany's new Parliament apologized for the Holocaust and for the deaths of millions of Soviets in World War II. The statement carried by the official news agency Tass was issued as President Mikhail S. Gorbachev met with Polish President Wojciech Jaruzelski. Poland had urged the Soviet Union to admit responsibility for the mass slayings, saying such ``blank spots'' in history were a barrier to better Polish-Soviet relations. Gorbachev gave Jaruzelski copies of the material from Soviet archives pertaining to the Poles imprisoned in the NKVD camps, Tass reported. In a speech at a dinner Friday night honoring Jaruzelski, Gorbachev referred to the massacre, Tass reported. He said the two leaders talked about ``those historical `knots' that even many years later cast shadows on our relations. Many of them are undone already.'' ``Recently, documents have been discovered which indirectly but convincingly testify that thousands of Polish officers who died in the Smolensk woods half a century ago became victims of (Stalin's secret police chief Lavrenti) Beria and his henchmen,'' Tass quoted Gorbachev as saying. ``The graves of the Polish officers are near Soviet people's graves, who fell from the same evil hand,'' he said. ``It is not easy to speak about this tragedy but we must speak about it for only through the truth there lies the way to genuine renewal and to genuine mutual understanding.'' The earlier statement said the ``Soviet side, expressing its deep regret in connection with the Katyn tragedy, states that it is one of the most horrifying Stalinist crimes,'' Tass said. ``It's good that criminals admit their crimes,'' Polish Solidarity leader Lech Walesa said in Gdansk. But other problems remain, including war reparations, he said. The massacre has caused bitterness among Poles for years despite the previous Communist government's loyal statements supporting the Soviet Union. Jaruzelski is scheduled to visit a memorial at Katyn on Saturday, following pilgrimages of Poles whose relatives and friends died in the massacre. The officers were captured by the Soviet Union when it invaded eastern Poland at the beginning of World War II, shortly after Hitler sent his soldiers across Poland's western border to start the war. They were shot in the back of the head and stacked in layers in mass graves. The bodies were found in April 1943 by German soldiers who captured the area during World War II. They were immediately used for propaganda purposes. Stalin blamed the Nazis for the deaths. Soviet historians recently began questioning that version, but it stood until the Soviet Union admitted responsibility Friday. A U.S. congressional committee in the early 1950s blamed the Soviets. Under Gorbachev's policy of glasnost, the Soviet Union has brought to light many of the deeds of Stalin and his henchmen, but Katyn was one of the final affairs to be touched by the greater openness. Records indicate that only 394 of the 15,000 captured Polish prisoners were transferred to the Gryazovetsky prison camp. The rest were turned over to the NKVD, the predecessor of the KGB, in Smolensk; Voroshilovgrad in the Ukraine; and Kalinin northwest of Moscow. All the officers disappeared from NKVD records, Tass said. Beria and others were executed after Stalin died in 1953. Historian Natalia Lebedeva, writing in the weekly Moscow News on March 25, said the officers apparently were killed in a single operation as the NKVD evacuated three camps. The Soviets might have considered the Polish officers a threat as potential future leaders of Poland. Ms. Lebedeva, who used Soviet central archives and Soviet army records, called it a ``well-thought-through and carefully planned operation.'' In Warsaw, Polish relatives of the victims were pleased the truth finally had come out, but expressed regret it took so long. ``I awfully regret that my mother could not live until this day,'' said Wanda Zadrozna, crying as she recalled her father's murder. ``There is a great regret that it took 50 years and the wives of those people didn't live until this day.'' ``But whatever happens now, it is good that the truth will be finally written in history,'' she said.
AP900707-0118 	X	The ARCO Chemical Co.'s inquiry into the plant explosion that killed 17 people has been stymied by a court order issued Saturday for the wife of a deceased worker. In response to her negligence lawsuit against the company, a judge granted a temporary restraining order preventing Atlantic Richfield Co. and ARCO Chemical from making any changes to the accident scene. Atlantic Richfield, based in Los Angeles, owns 83 percent of ARCO Chemical. ``We can't remove anything until OSHA releases the area to us,'' said Jack Johnson, president of ARCO Chemical Americas. He refused to comment further on the lawsuit, filed Friday by Sandra Lucas Davis. Her husband, Gregory Scott Davis, 27, was one of the names on a partial list of victims released by the company Saturday. State District Judge Shearn Smith issued the temporary restraining order, but it did not prohibit OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, from conducting its investigation. OSHA officials, who were sifting through the damaged area, expect to complete their investigation in about a week, Johnson said. Assistant Secretary of Labor Gerard F. Scannell said Friday his agency was focusing on maintenance reports and complaints that employees had to work especially long hours at the plant. Plant manager Earl McCaleb said workers normally work 12-hour shifts for four days, then are off four days. Harold Sorgenti, president of ARCO Chemical, said the company was concentrating on helping families and employees deal with the deaths, while making sure the plant is stabilized. The explosion at about 11:30 p.m. Thursday ripped through the plant's utility area on the extreme southern end of the complex where employees were doing maintenance work, officials said. What the employees actually were doing ``will be determined by the investigation,'' Sorgenti said. ``Initially, they were beginning to fix a compressor.'' Initial speculation was that the five ARCO workers and 11 Austin Industrial Inc. contract workers killed were cleaning the 900,000-gallon tank that exploded. The other worker killed was the driver of a vacuum truck that was in the area to remove rainwater from a sump, McCaleb said. Sorgenti also said the investigation will focus on why so many people were in the area when normally five people are assigned there. ``I think it's difficult to understand why there was that concentration of employees in that area at that time,'' said Sorgenti, who flew to Houston from Europe where he was on business. McCaleb said it would be several months before the plant begins operating again. The 350 ARCO employees at the plant, about 15 miles east of Houston, are working to restore the plant and will not lose any pay, he said. The ARCO plant annually produces 560 million pounds of propylene oxide, used to make flexible foam for seat cushions and bedding. It also produces 1.3 billion pounds of styrene monomer, used for insulation, foam drinking cups, packaging materials and automotive parts; and 1.7 billion pounds of methyl tertiary butyl ether, a high-octane blending component used as a replacement for lead in gasoline. The explosion was the second major loss of life at a Houston area petrochemical facility in nine months. On Oct. 23, a series of explosions ripped through a Phillips Petroleum Co. plant in Pasadena, claiming 23 lives and injuring 130 people.
AP901018-0260 	X	Americans' spendin power sank again in September as the Persian Gulf crisis pushed prices up a sharp 0.8 percent for the second straight month, the government said Thursday. Still, inflation not tied to oil prices remained relatively mild. If the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index continued increasing at the September pace for a year, it would produce an annual inflation rate of 9.5 percent. Most economists believe price increases - absent the outbreak of a shooting war - will return to a more normal level by the end of the year. The oil shock nevertheless has added a new burden for an economy that was already on the brink of recession. ``You take out energy and the numbers aren't that bad. But on the other hand, people have to buy the energy and it gives you an annual inflation rate roughly double the rate of wage growth,'' said economist Donald Ratajczak of Georgia State University. ``It means that people won't have a lot of money to spend on Christmas,'' he said. The ``core'' inflation rate - prices excluding food and energy - was 0.3 percent in September, down from 0.5 percent in August. For the first nine months of 1990, prices increased at an annual rate of 6.6 percent, well above the 4.6 percent increase for all of last year. The rate for all of 1990, if it comes in close to 7 percent as now expected, will be the worst since 1981, when prices shot up 8.9 percent. The pickup in inflation so far this year helped bring about the biggest boost in Social Security benefits in 8{ years. Based on Thursday's report, the government announced a 5.4 percent rise in benefits beginning in January for the 40 million Social Security recipients. In addition to boosting consumer inflation based on oil and various energy products, the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion and its aftermath hurt the U.S. merchandise trade deficit. It rose 2.4 percent to a seven-month high of $9.3 billion in August. Increasing oil prices pushed imports to a record high, more than offsetting a modest rise in exports. The stock market shrugged off the news, with the Dow Jones average of industrial stocks advancing. Analysts said traders were doing some cautious buying in the belief that worries about the economy had gone to unjustified extremes. In a separate report, the Labor Department said Americans' average weekly earnings, after adjusting for inflation, increased 0.4 percent in September. Still, they were down 1.5 percent from a year ago. In the inflation report, energy prices in September jumped 5.6 percent, the worst rise on record since the department began tracking the sector in 1957. Gasoline soared 9.5 percent, the largest increase in 17 months, and fuel oil rose 15.9 percent. For August and September together, gasoline rose 17.9 percent and fuel oil was up 33.7 percent. Electricity and natural gas charges also rose, but less steeply. Analysts expect the bad news to continue through November or December, even if oil prices stabilize near where they are now - around $40 a barrel, double the July price. In the next few months, the oil shock probably will begin feeding through to chemicals, airline tickets and other energy-related products and services. But it probably will not produce a permanent increase in the inflation rate, said economist David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston & Co., a government securities dealer in New York. ``We simply don't suffer this time around from the same kind of inflationary psychology as we did during earlier oil shocks in 1973 and 1979. In the `70s, consumers were buying in anticipation of price increases. Now, consumers are waiting for a bargain,'' he said. Jones said recent increases in consumer prices are great enough to cause the Federal Reserve to be cautious about stimulating the economy with lower interest rates but not so great as to prevent a quarter-point cut in short-term rates if Congress and President Bush agree on a plan to cut the federal budget deficit. In other details, the Labor Department said: -Food and beverage prices rose a moderate 0.3 percent last month, the same as August. -Medical care was up 0.7 percent, bringing prices 9.3 percent higher than a year earlier. -Clothing costs also were up 0.7 percent in September. Men's and boys' clothing prices fell, but women's, girls' and infants' clothing costs rose, as did the price of shoes. -New car prices edged up only 0.1 percent after remaining unchanged in August. Car dealers beset with lagging sales have been unable to wean the public from rebate programs and discounted financing. -Housing costs were up 0.4 percent, held back by a decline in hotel and motel costs, which had been rising steeply earlier in the year. The various changes put the index for all consumer items at 132.7 in September. That means a hypothetical selection of goods and services costing $100 in the 1982-84 base period, cost $132.70 last month, up $7.70 from a year earlier.
AP880425-0032 	X	Michael Dukakis was getting his early morning exercise walking down a Pittsburgh street, when someone gave a cry of recognition: ``Hey, isn't that Caliguiri?'' No, it wasn't Pittsburgh Mayor Richard Caliguiri: It was the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination. ``I guess the mayor and I look alike,'' Dukakis said as he described the Sunday morning greeting. ``There's an old saying in Italian: `One face _ one race.' We're all part of the same family.'' Far ahead in the polls here for Tuesday's primary, Dukakis said the incident shows ``we need to do a lot of work to make sure people know who Dukakis is on the ballot.'' The Massachusetts governor himself is working hard _ taking a whistle-stop train tour across western Pennsylvania on Sunday and making a six-city flying tour of the state today. Dukakis is looking for a fourth straight big-state win here over his surviving competitor _ Jesse Jackson _ to tighten his grip on the front-runner's crown and widen his margin in the delegate count. ``If we can win big here Tuesday, it will give us a tremendous boost,'' Dukakis told a big crowd of students on the Pennsylvania State University campus, who were welcoming back his wife, Kitty, a Penn State graduate. Through the cold, cloudy day in Pittsburgh, Greensburg, Johnstown and Altoona, Dukakis hit over and over again on his message of good jobs and economic development in a region devastated by changes in the steel and coal industries. ``If we can't bring good jobs and economic opportunity back to the Johnstowns of this country, then there is something the matter with us,'' he told a crowd there. ``I believe we can. I believe we're going to.'' Dukakis drew the parallels between New England's economic troubles of the past and Pennsylvania's troubles of the present. ``As a New Englander, we went through the same kind of pain and economic distress as you have,'' he said in Greensburg. ``Our communities have come back and these communities are going to come back.'' Drawing on the two weekend debates between the Democrats, Dukakis talked of how he and Jackson agree on many issues. ``Instead of investing in a lot of exotic weapon systems of very marginal value, we've got to take these resources and put them _ as both Rev. Jackson and I said Saturday _ into our infrastructure.'' But on Sunday, Dukakis brushed off suggestions from Jackson that he should put out a budget. ``You can't prepare a budget now for next year _ that's absurd,'' he told reporters on the chartered Amtrak train, nicknamed the ``Pennsylvania Presidential Unlimited.'' And Dukakis resisted pressure from a new Jackson tactic, urging massive new spending on education, drug control efforts and other programs. The front-runner went down his own list of education programs _ which he says involve only modest spending increases _ while Jackson said the federal government should double its spending on education. ``We're not going to run the nation's school system from Washington,'' Dukakis said. ``The thing a president has to do is to set some priorities and get after them.'' The Democratic candidate also took a couple of swipes at George Bush, saying that the Republican nominee-to-be seems more interested in building aircraft carriers than in rebuilding the nation's railroads and highways. ``Mr. Bush was critical of me ... because I oppose spending $36 billion on two supercarrier task forces that we don't need and we can't afford,'' Dukakis said. ``If he thinks that's where we ought to put our scarce resources, then so be it. But it's going to be a fundamental issue in this campaign. ``I think I know where the American people are _ they are tired of crumbling bridges, congested airports, jammed highways, homeless people on streets and in doorways ... and they want a change.'' If Dukakis is the Democratic nominee, perhaps he will get a wish expressed wistfully in Pittsburgh. ``All of you know me. I suppose we'd all like to suppose that I'm a household word,'' he told the small crowd. ``I'd like one of these days to come to Pittsburgh and hear, `Hey, isn't that Dukakis?'''
AP901017-0032 	X	The last group of communist guerrillas in Sarawak state signed a peace accord Wednesday and laid down their arms, the national news agency Bernama reported. Some of the 51 guerrillas brought their children, including a month-old infant, to the ceremony in Kuching, 540 miles southeast of Kuala Lumpur, Bernama reported. Guerrilla leaders Ang Chu Ting and Wong Lian Kui and Sarawak State Secretary Bujang Mohamed Nor and other government officials signed the agreement, the agency said. The North Kalimantan Communist Party operated in Sarawak state, on Borneo Island, for 30 years. A first group of 569 guerrillas made peace in 1973. Last December, 1,100 more communist guerrillas laid down their arms. Government officials said the guerrillas agreed to stop fighting because the people no longer support them. The officials said the collapse of communism in Europe may have disheartened the guerrillas.
AP880923-0023 	X	_Require that many federal benefits be denied for five years from those convicted of two or more drug-related offenses within a 10-year period; and denial for 10 years for those convicted of drug distribution. Included would be public housing, licenses, contracts and student loans, and veterans' assistance in cases of distribution convictions. Excepted would be retirement, welfare, health and disability assistance. _Provide grants to states for enforcement of anti-drug programs that take away a convicted drug offender's right to drive. Suspension would have to last six months for a first conviction and at least one year for repeat convictions within a five-year period. _Provide grants to states to help implement drunken driving enforcement programs, provided the programs include immediate suspension of licenses of those found driving under the influence of alcohol. _Allow the Federal Aviation Administration to modify aircraft registration and pilot certificate programs to ensure positive, verifiable and timely identification of aircraft owners and pilots. _Establish an Office of Drug Enforcement Coordination under the president to establish policies, objectives and priorities for federal drug enforcement.
AP880613-0215 	X	Diminishing winds helped firefighters battle a 9,800-acre brush fire on steep, rocky terrain in southern Arizona Monday, and in Montana most fire crews returned home after controlling a 17,000-acre grass fire that killed cattle and destroyed three homes. A small fire in southern California's Angeles National Forest may have been started by a killer disposing of a woman's body. Firefighters elsewhere in the same forest Monday evening contained a 710-acre brush fire that may have been the work of an arsonist. And in southwest New Mexico, firefighters struggled with at least five lightning-caused wildfires that charred more than 500 acres of grassland and trees. Authorities said the largest fire burned at least 400 acres of grass, brush, juniper trees and pockets of ponderosa pine trees on federal lands. Twenty-four fires were reported in New Mexico from the lightning of a Friday afternoon storm, authorities said. ``Things are looking very good down along the border,'' said Jim Payne, a spokesman with the U.S. Forest Service in Phoenix. Payne said winds died down Monday to 15 to 20 mph, allowing firefighters to work towards consolidating fire lines that have been cut along the flanks of the blaze. Payne said the fire, which started Friday in Mexico, has consumed 2,500 acres in northwest Sonora and 7,300 acres in Arizona. He said firefighters hope to have the blaze contained by Wednesday evening. The blaze was named the Peaks fire because it was on Coronado National Forest slopes so steep that the fire-line elevation ranged from 5,200 feet to 7,200 feet. In southern California, the charred body of a woman was found early Monday in a small brush fire was an apparent homicide victim, Los Angeles County sheriff's officials said. Investigators believe the woman was killed elsewhere, dumped and set ablaze, said Deputy Gabe Ramirez. That fire was fanned Sunday night by northeasterly winds gusting to 35 mph, but during the day Monday the wind shifted to the southwest, bringing in moist ocean air, said Forest Service spokesman Mike Wickman. The only reported loss was an apiary, but firefighters managed to save another set of beehives, Mike Wickman said. No injuries were reported. A fire that raced across 17,000 acres of parched Montana grassland, destroying three homes and killing cows, was declared under control Monday. An Amtrak train apparently sparked the fire Friday in eastern Montana, said Roosevelt County Fire Chief Lyle Knudsen. The flames quickly spread into North Dakota's Williams County. No serious injuries were reported. Most firefighters were withdrawn Monday. ``We've just got a few guys keeping an eye out, spot checks, but all the (fire) departments have returned in,'' Knudsen said. Officials were unsure how many head of cattle were lost in the fire. Cattle displaced by the fire were widely scattered, Knudsen said, adding: ``We definitely need hay or pasture, because we've got hundreds of head of cattle without anything to eat.''
AP900204-0048 	X	El Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani attracted dozens of protesters Sunday when he went to Harvard University, apparently to watch his son play in a squash match, officials said. Harvard spokesman Peter Costa said Cristiani was in town for ``a private, family visit.'' Costa said he was told Cristiani's son was a member of Princeton University's squash team, which was playing Harvard. Dozens of protesters opposed to El Salvadoran military policies demonstrated outside the Harvard gymnasium, banging pots and pans. Earlier in the day, protesters gathered outside the Cambridge hotel where Cristiani was staying. The demonstrators brought letters from Cambridge Mayor Alice Wolf and from the Cambridge, Belmont and Arlington sister city projects. The letters described how recent delegations that visited sister cities in El Salvador reported continuing human rights abuses by the military. In her letter, Wolf said children often have been the victims of military raids in Cambridge's sister city of San Jose Las Flores. ``Our president, George Bush, frequently justifies the military aid that our country sends your government on the grounds that you have at long last brought the armed forces of El Salvador under democratic civilian control,'' the letter said. ``Judging from their behavior towards San Jose Las Flores, this does not seem to be the case.''
AP901009-0150 	X	Gov. Kay Orr said Tuesday she won't campaign for re-election in a county bitterly divided over a proposed radioactive waste warehouse because her life has been threatened. Boyd County, a sparsely populated ranching area on the state's northern edge, has been in turmoil since officials began considering it as a possible home for low-level radioactive waste from five states. A rancher who opposes the plan is on a hunger strike. The Nebraska State Patrol said a letter was received in early August ``that contained some implied threats.'' Patrol spokesman Jeff Hanson declined to release any further details, saying the matter was under investigation. Hanson said the letter lacked some elements needed before authorities could charge anyone with making terroristic threats. Orr spokesman Doug Parrott said he understands that the threat is related to the nuclear waste dispute. Mrs. Orr said she knows who made the threat but wouldn't disclose the name. She said she had hoped the situation in Boyd County wouldn't deteriorate to the point of threats. ``There are a lot of things that you consider when you step into a public office,'' Mrs. Orr said. ``I think most of it was pretty well understood by Bill (her husband) and me. ``It's dismaying to think that we have gotten to this point that people lose faith and confidence in their government.'' The proposed waste site lies about two miles outside Butte, a village of about 500 people. Supporters have welcomed the money the dump may bring. Opponents have said they fear accidents and long-term effects of the radioactive waste. US Ecology, a waste site developer chosen by the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Commission, has applied to the state for permits to build the waste warehouse. The reinforced concrete warehouse near the South Dakota border would hold waste from the five states that make up the commission: Nebraska, Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Kansas. Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ben Nelson's campaign manager, Sonny Foster, said it was the first he had heard of any threat against Mrs. Orr. He said it had ``absolutely nothing'' to do with the Nelson campaign. ``I think that I can say on the behalf of Ben Nelson that we don't feel that threatening people is part of the political process and there's no way that Ben Nelson would ever condone that kind of activity,'' Foster said. Nelson has visited Boyd County and has said that he is concerned about the diisions in the community, Foster said. One rancher who opposes the waste site has been on a hunger strike for more than three weeks. Lowell Fisher of Spencer, who said Tuesday he had lost 29 pounds since his fast began on Sept. 17, said he didn't believe the threat against Mrs. Orr was a serious one. ``I think it's stupid but if you have enough people who are emotionally upset, they say something,'' Fisher said. Fisher said he intends to continue his water-only diet until the governor tells the waste compact commission that the community objects to the waste site or holds a special election to see if there is. An aide to the governor has said Mrs. Orr lacks the power to call such an election and noted that the village board has supported the waste site plans.
AP901218-0136 	X	The Czechoslovak Embassy in Washington will stop representing Cuban diplomatic interests in the United States by March, the state CTK news agency reported Tuesday. CTK quoted the Foreign Ministry as saying the grace period should permit Havana ``to cope with the new situation, without jeopardizing its interests in the U.S.A.'' The Czechoslovak Embassy has represented Cuban interests in Washington since 1977. Diplomatic and consular ties between Cuba and the United States were severed in January 1961. Interests sections enable countries to maintain diplomatic contact without having to have full-fledged embassies. A senior Cuban diplomatic official in Washington, speaking on condition he not be identified, said the Cuban government has no alternate plan in mind at present to replace the current arrangement with the Czechoslovak government. He said he assumes both the Cuban and U.S. governments wish to maintain a diplomatic presence in each other's capital and that Cuba will seek a new arrangement. The official said he had seen news reports about Prague's decision but had heard nothing officially. U.S. diplomatic activities in Havana have been carried out under the auspices of the Swiss embassy. One diplomatic source suggested that Cuba may ask the Swiss to perform that function for Cuba in Washington. The source spoke on condition of anonymity. The news agency quoted an unidentified Foreign Ministry source as saying that ``the different opinions of the two countries on the exercising of human rights'' and other fundamental differences prompted the Czechoslovak decision. Czechoslovakia has become a democracy following the revolution that toppled the Communist leadership one year ago; Cuba remains Communist-ruled. The ministry source suggested that deteriorating relations after Czechoslovakia embraced democracy contributed to Prague's decision, CTK said. He singled out the storming of Czechoslovak embassy premises in Havana in July by Cubans who claimed they were dissidents but who the Czechoslovaks believe were in the pay of the Cuban government. The invasion of the embassy ``can be rightfully presumed to have been intended to discredit the new Czechoslovak regime in the eyes of the Cuban public,'' CTK quoted the source as saying. Efforts to contact the Czechoslovak embassy in Washington by telephone were unavailing.
AP900808-0156 	X	The United States turned to two of its long-time Middle East adversaries, Syria and Iran, seeking potential partners to counter Iraq's aggression in the Persian Gulf. The dramatic moves were announced by Secretary of State James A. Baker III as he flew to Turkey with assurances to that nation of financial and military support for its ``forthright closing'' of two Iraqi oil pipelines and for freezing Iraqi assets. U.S. government sources said Turkey was seeking $2 billion to compensate it for revenue it will lose by closing the pipelines. Before stopping at a Portugese air base in the Azores for refueling, Baker also said he had received new assurances of Soviet support in enforcing an economic boycott of Iraq ordered by the United Nations Security Council. Baker told reporters traveling with him he would send John H. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for the Near East, to Damascus from Ankara ``to see if we can coordinate with the Syrians'' on collective efforts against Iraq. At the same time, Baker verified reports that the United States also has been in touch with Iran through ``third party contacts.'' The enmity between the Syrian and Iraqi governments is intense, with the only possible greater enmity being that between Iran and Iraq. Syria helped Iran in Iran's long and bloody eight-year war started by another invasion of Iraqi President Saddam Hussein in 1980. Syrian President Hafez Assad and Saddam Hussein are longtime rivals within the Arab world. The two nations are ruled by rival Arab socialist parties, each considering the other an outcast. Apart from that conflict, Syria's relationship with the United States has been as bad as U.S. reations with Iraq. In fact, Syria is one of six countries listed by the State Department as sponsoring terrorists acts. Iraq was removed from that list several years ago. Terrorist groups believed to be under the influence of Iran are holding six Americans hostage in Lebanon, the longest since 1985. Baker declined to say what `` collective efforts'' Syria and the United States might undertake against Iraq. ``I really don't want to get into the specifics of that,'' he said. Baker talked for about a half hour by telephone with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, their third conversation in two days. The secretary then said, ``They continue to support enforcement of the U.N. resolution. We can look toward continued Soviet cooperation to carry out the resolution.'' Baker said Moscow had dispatched naval forces to the Persian Gulf for use in any international blockade to enforce the sanctions approved unanimously Monday by the U.N. Security Council. Kelly, who was flying to Turkey with Baker, will go on to Saudi Arabia, whose oil fields the U.S is protecting with thousands of troops dispatched Wednesday. Kelly will meet with ousted leaders of the Kuwaiti government who were given sanctuary in Saudi Arabia, and with Saudi officials. A senior U.S. official who demanded anonymity said was up to Saudi Arabia to decide whether Syria and Iran could participate in defense of the kingdon against Iraq. Iran has mounted terrorist operations against Saudi Arabia in the past, according to Saudi officials.
AP880627-0050 	X	Gasoline prices bucked a summer trend and dipped a quarter of a cent a gallon during the last two weeks, according to a nationwide survey of more than 12,000 stations. The Lundberg Survey said the average price of all grades of gasoline offered at all types of service stations was 99.98 cents as of Friday, down from the June 10 average price of $1.0023 per gallon. The average price was down nearly a full cent from comparable June 1987 prices, according to the survey released Sunday. ``It is untypical for retail prices to be falling at this time of year,'' when the demand from vacationing motorists usually pulls up the price, said survey director Trilby Lundberg. She blamed the dip on competition between dealers and price instablity on the global oil market. The survey found that average prices at self-serve pumps as of Friday were: regular unleaded, 90.84 cents a gallon; premium unleaded, $1.056 a gallon; and regular leaded, 88.09 cents a gallon. Self-service pumps account for eight of every 10 gallons of gasoline sold. At full service pumps, the average prices were: regular unleaded, $1.1964; premium unleaded $1.2978; and regular leaded $1.1592.
AP880424-0031 	X	Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev's economic reform program ran into problems last year and things aren't likely to improve in the near future, U.S. intelligence agencies said in a report released Sunday. Unless Gorbachev can do something to turn the economy around, he may find himself in trouble, said the bleak review which was conducted jointly by the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency. ``Tension within society and the leadership will increase,'' it said. ``Bureaucrats will become increasingly frustrated by loss of privileges and status and by demands that they show greater initiative. Military leaders are likely to become more and more uneasy if benefits from the industrial modernization fail to materialize.'' ``Soviet citizens will need to see some improvement in living standards if the regime is to achieve necessary gains in worker productivity and avoid widespread discontent,'' the study said. The report concluded that ``failure to head off these tensions would, at a minimum, make it more difficult to pursue his economic program vigorously and could, ultimately call into question his strong political position at home.'' Gorbachev and supporters of his reforms have acknowledged resistance at the highest levels, and there have been reports in Moscow of conflict over reform measures between Gorbachev and No. 2 Kremlin leader Yegor K. Ligachev. Criticism of the slow pace of Gorbachev's reforms earlier led to the firing of Boris N. Yeltsin as Moscow Communist Party boss. The U.S. intelligence study was presented April 13 to the congressional Joint Economic Committee, and a declassified version was released by the panel. The study is the annual review of the Soviet economy, three years after Gorbachev came to power. He inherited an aging, extremely inefficient economy and made its modernization one of his top priorities, the study noted. After some early success, ``Gorbachev's ambitious program to create a modern, more dynamic Soviet economy ran into trouble in 1987,'' the study said. ``Familiar problems with poor weather and transportation bottlenecks were compounded by the disruptions caused by the introduction of economic reforms,'' it said. The Soviet gross national product, the total value of all goods and services produced, grew only .5 percent last year, the study noted. That rate was ``reminiscent of the late Brezhnev period,'' it said, referring to Leonid Brezhnev, a Gorbachev predecessor who prevailed over a largely stagnant economy in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The study noted that the Soviet GNP grew by 3.9 percent in 1986, the first full year of Gorbachev's term, compared with .6 percent in 1985. By contrast, the U.S. gross national product grew 2.9 percent, both in 1986 and 1987. However, the American economy measures a much larger base and comparisons are difficult. The Soviet economy was hampered by bad weather last year, particularly in agriculture, where output fell three percent, the study said. But industrial quality control measures also ``proved to be particularly disruptive, especially early in the year.'' Thus, industry only grew 1.5 percent and the civilian machine-building sector didn't grow at all. ``The real loser in 1987 appeared to be the consumer, who _ now three years into Gorbachev's economic program _ has seen almost no increase in his standard of living,'' the study said. It also said that for a variety of reasons, ``the short-term outlook for Gorbachev's economic program is not good.'' Among those reasons are confusion about guidelines for self-financing reforms, deficiencies in 1987 machine-building that will slow the speed of modernization, transportation problems, and poor prospects for improved worker productivity. Gorbachev also needs to be better organized, the study concluded. ``Although Gorbachev's program is comprehensive, it is in some respects inconsistent, particularly with regard to timing. For example, his goals for an immediate acceleration in the growth of national income and a pronounced improvement in the quality of output are, in our view, fundamentally incompatible.'' In addition, ``his plan to change traditional economic planning and administrative procedures dramatically has been thrust upon a largely unprepared bureaucracy,'' the study said.
AP900911-0288 	X	Black-owned businesses increased more than twice as fast as overall business growth over five years, the Census Bureau reported Tuesday. But the money earned by black firms went up at only the same rate as business overall, reflecting that the minority-owned companies were relatively smaller than businesses overall. The bureau reported that black-owned businesses increased from 308,000 in 1982 to 424,000 in 1987, the most recent year for which detailed information is available. That was an increase of 38 percent, compared with a rise of just 14 percent in the total number of businesses in the country. During the same period, receipts of black-owned firms rose 105 percent to $19.8 billion. Total business income increased 106 percent to more than $1.9 trillion in the same period. According to the Census report, based on the 1987 Economic Census, 94 percent of black-owned businesses were sole proprietorships. Receipts per company averaged $47,000 for black-owned companies compared to $146,000 for all businesses. And 54 percent of black-owned firms had receipts of under $10,000. About half of all black-owned businesses were service companies, while 16 percent were in retail trade. By income, automobile dealers and service stations were the top black-owned business, followed by business services, health service, contractors and miscellaneous retail firms. New York, with 28,063 businesses, has the most black-owned firms, the report said. Los Angeles was second at 23,932, followed by Washington, 23,046; Chicago, 15,374 and Houston, 12,989.
AP900916-0005 	X	People stare at the scars on his throat as he waits in grocery store check-out lines. Sometimes they ask if he has a cold. Sometimes they ask if he fought in Vietnam. He never served in Vietnam, but he tells people he did, because he knows from experience that they won't want the truth. The truth is, eight years ago a stranger jammed a knife into his gut, spilling the intestines out of his slight frame, then slit his throat as he lay calling for help. It's those details people don't want to hear - details that still rattle him, causing his hands to shake uncontrollably, calling attention to nails bitten down to nothing. The sandy-haired young father is just one of several million people victimized by aggravated assault in the past decade. The attack swept away his optimism and trust, his devil-may-care fearlessness. Taking its place is fear - fear so real that after telling his story, he asked that his real name and hometown be kept secret. ``We live with the realization that it doesn't happen to somebody else,'' said the boyish, 33-year-old we'll call Larry Roberts. ``We know that people will hurt you.'' Murders may steal the headlines, but the number of serious assaults dwarfs the number of killings. Assault victims survive, but often are changed forever. ``The trauma of having looked at the jaws of death is something that is very rough to deal with,'' said John Stein, deputy director of the National Organization for Victims Assistance. Some 559,270 people - roughly the population of Columbus, Ohio, - were injured in aggravated assaults last year alone, according to the National Crime Survey, which annually interviews members of some 49,000 households and extrapolates from that to the entire nation. The survey found that 1.1 million others were victims of an attempted aggravated assault with a weapon - a gunshot flew by them, for example. On the night of June 6, 1982, Roberts was on leave from the Navy and interested mainly in getting in a last day of scuba diving before his aircraft carrier departed in two days. He was pitching a tent in a park when two strangers struck up a conversation. They seemed friendly enough. Then without warning, one of them stabbed Roberts in the abdomen and ran off with his scuba gear, wedding ring and $4 in cash. ``When I thought he was gone, I started to holler for help,'' Roberts said, a catch in his now-raspy voice. ``He came back through the woods and he tilted my head back and slit my throat twice. And then he tied my feet together and my hands back to two trees.'' Roberts eventually worked free, dragged himself 250 feet to a dirt road, holding in his intestines and pressing his chin toward his chest to keep the blood from spurting out. Help finally arrived the next morning. He spent 10 months in the hospital, undergoing at least 10 operations. The fear took over when he emerged from the hospital April 18, 1983. ``I used to take a gun with me wherever I went,'' he said. ``I was scared to death.'' In the next two years, Roberts moved his family six times. ``Something would happen, something would trigger me and we'd be gone,'' he said. They stopped running five years ago in rural Maryland so their elder daughter could start school and enjoy a semblance of a normal life. Four years ago, Roberts and his wife had a second daughter. In the meantime, his attacker pleaded guilty to attempted murder and served six years of a 10-year sentence before being freed as a model prisoner. Roberts still fears him - even though he believes his fear is irrational. He also insisted that the assailant's name not be used, in part because he doesn't want to antagonize him. Even now, Roberts' home is guarded by a large, loud dog nicknamed Norad, after the nation's early warning system for nuclear attacks. At night, their home is awash in light. Two sheriff's deputies live across the street. Roberts and his wife never employ baby-sitters because they don't trust strangers. The attack destroyed Roberts' career plans. The Navy discharged him involuntarily because he could no longer perform his job. Desperate to catch up for time lost, Roberts pushed himself too far. He has had a drinking problem. He spent two months in a psychiatric hospital last year. Today, he takes things more slowly, teaching scuba diving only part time while attending college. And after years of shying away from the world, he now tells his story to police groups, hoping to sensitize officers to victims' needs. ``The victim is a piece of evidence,'' said Andrew Turner, a criminal justice instructor at Wor Wic Tech Community College and a former Maryland police officer who has arranged some of Roberts' talks. ``If the guy survived, you had a good case. He could come and testify against the perpetrator.'' Turner said. ``Police don't see a guy healed up'' but still needing emotional support. Roberts finds the speeches therapeutic, despite the toll they take, and he has established a network of people who will help him when he cracks from the strain. It is important to Roberts that he controls the impact of the attack and not the other way around, but he conceded, ``It has given my life a different direction.'' Now there's yet another fear: AIDS. Roberts had numerous blood transfusions in 1982, before blood was tested for the deadly disease, and he refuses to be tested now. ``If I'm going to die of it,'' he said with a grimace, ``I don't want to know about it.''
AP881003-0094 	X	A zoo advocacy group is calling for an investigation into the cause of a half-dozen puncture wounds on the head and face of an elephant that injured a veterinarian who was trying to treat the wounds. ``What we're talking about here is abuse,'' Sandra Keller, spokeswoman for Citizens for a Better Zoo, said Sunday. ``We have been receiving complaints about the way these elephants are being mistreated for several months.'' Veterinarian Gail Hedberg was treating an abscess on the head of a 3{-ton Asian elephant named Tinkerbelle when the animal attacked her Saturday, fracturing her pelvis. Zookeepers said Tinkerbelle did a ``handstand'' on the woman. Hedberg was listed in stable condition today at San Francisco General Hospital. Some officials defended practices at the San Francisco Zoo. ``We have to use elephant hooks and other methods that may appear abusive because we're not talking about puppy dogs and pussy cats here,'' said zoo director Saul Kitchener. ``How do you get a 10,000-pound elephant's attention?'' Elephant keeper Michele Radovsky said beating an elephant is no different from ``people taking rolled newspapers and hitting their dog.'' But Paul Hunter, a keeper at the zoo for nine years, said the abscess on Tinkerbell's head was caused by someone hitting her too hard with a hooked instrument called an ankuf or elephant hook. ``The elephants get beaten up real bad, and I'm getting tired of it,'' said Hunter.
AP881019-0052 	X	Two car bombs apparently set off by leftist guerrillas exploded in an affluent neighborhood of this capital. Rescue workers said six people were injured. Although there was no claim of responsibility, the bombings Tuesday night appeared to mark an escalation in the employment of the car-bomb tactic by urban commandos. The previous three car bombs this year were primarily incendiary devices. The Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front claimed responsibility for those bombings. A nine-year civil war pits the Marxist-led guerrillas against forces of the U.S.-backed centrist government. The latest bombs were powerful, blowing one vehicle to bits and throwing parts of another onto a 20-foot-high roof. The bombs exploded about two minutes apart. One went off in the parking lot of the ``Biggest'' fast-food hamburger chain, which is Salvadoran-owned but imitates American restaurants. It shattered windows and destroyed part of the roof. The other exploded 200 yards away in front of a complex of boutiques and stores catering primarily to the wealthy in the Escalon neighborhood on San Salvador's western edge. The rebels' clandestine radio indicated in an Oct. 7 broadcast that urban commandos would increase activity in such areas. ``There is no more tranquil rear-guard for the exploiters,'' the broadcast said. ``Because it is not fair that bombs and explosions are heard only in the countryside, in the hamlets of the poor. .. . It is not fair that only the oppressed hear the noise of the war and suffer its consequences. ``The rich are in this war too.'' Rescue worker Miguel Angel Torres said five employees were injured by flying glass at the ``Biggest.'' Another rescue worker said one person was slightly injured by flying glass at the other bombing site. Torres said two of the injured might lose their eyesight. Nicolas Salume, owner of the ``Biggest,'' said about 40 people were inside the building when the bomb went off. He estimated damage at $100,000. A man outside the Biggest said, ``This is a great injustice. It is terrorism.'' He declined to be named, saying he was an industrialist and could become a guerrilla target if publicly identified.
AP880823-0169 	X	The FBI has no quota system to ensure Hispanics are included in a program to train agents for top positions, one of the FBI's highest-ranking officials testified Tuesday. ``We're trying to recruit the best people we can for the program,'' said John Otto, executive assistant FBI director. ``There are no quotas at this time. But we want our very best people to include minorities and women.'' Otto, one of three men who share the bureau's No. 2 rank under director William Sessions, testified in a discrimination lawsuit against the FBI. Attorneys for the 311 Hispanic agents joined in the class-action suit contend the FBI routinely keeps Hispanics out of a fast-track promotion path that includes the four-day Management Assessment Program. The plaintiffs contend the FBI discriminates against Hispanics in hiring, promotion, assignments and discipline. They seek unspecified damages and changes in FBI policies. About 400 of the bureau's 9,400 agents _ or 4.3 percent _ are Hispanic, compared with 8 percent of the general U.S. population. During the first week of testimony, about 40 agents _ Hispanic and non-Hispanic _ testified that Hispanic agents are transferred more often to undesirable locations, are given less glamorous or more dangerous assignments and receive less recognition for their successes. Otto said the FBI's Career Board, which supervises the fast-track promotion program, holds an annual retreat in Quantico, Va., to discuss the problems of minorities. No Hispanics sit on the Career Board, he testified. In other testimony, Melvin Jeter, head of the FBI's equal employment opportunity office, said all 25 discrimination complaints brought in the past by agents in the class-action suit were determined to be unfounded. Asked by defense attorney Felix Baxter whether he considered himself anti-Hispanic, Jeter said: ``I certainly do not. I personally look forward to going to conventions and recruiting Hispanic agents.'' Margaret Gulotta, head of the FBI's linguist program, said any agent who speaks a foreign language can be required to use that skill throughout the agent's career. Agents can serve as language specialists for three years, then ask not to be requested to use the language again. But a loophole in the rule allows supervisors to ask those agents to do undercover work, listen to wiretaps and do other assignments in the language based upon the needs of the FBI. The plaintiffs contend the FBI abuses that loophole, keeping Hispanic agents doing routine tasks, such as listening to wiretaps, that do not lead to management jobs. The non-jury trial is scheduled to end Friday, and U.S. District Judge Lucius Bunton is expected to render a decision within six months. Federal employees are not entitled to jury trials when suing the government in discrimination cases.
AP880929-0259 	X	Societe Generale de Belgique SA said Thursday it is ready to continue talks with Robert Maxwell that could result in the British publisher gaining a stake in Belgium's largest holding company. Maxwell and Societe Generale agreed in June to cooperate in creating a joint venture in communications, and the two sides had broached the possibility of Maxwell acquiring shares in Societe Generale. But the negotiations were interrupted when Maxwell turned his attention to Macmillan Inc., the New York-based publishing and information services company he has offered to acquire for $2.47 billion in cash. This week Macmillan agreed to a $2.5 billion cash-and-securities buyout by the investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., but Maxwell said he was mulling his options. On Wednesday, Maxwell said he remained interested in acquiring a stake in Societe Generale and that talks may resume soon. A spokesman for Societe Generale said, ``We continue to be interested in having more international shareholders.'' Maxwell appears primarily drawn to Societe Generale's media interests, which are concentrated in Tractebel SA.
AP900720-0174 	X	Many of the nation's leading filmmakers _ including Francis Ford Coppola, Barry Levinson and Paul Mazursky _ will ask the Motion Picture Association of America to change its movie rating system. In a petition to be delivered to the MPAA offices here Tuesday, more than a dozen top directors ask that a new rating be established for adult-oriented films that are not pornographic, according to a copy of the letter. ``The taint of an X rating clearly results in massive and arbitrary corporate censorship,'' the petition says. ``Failure to address this problem will help foster a new era of `McCarthyism' in the arts as during the 50's, when the networks claimed it was not they who blacklisted artists, but the sponsors.'' The letter says the X rating ``has come to be universally recognized as pertaining simply to pornography. ... We therefore strongly suggest that a new rating of A (for adult) or M (for mature) be incorporated into the system to indicate a film contains strong adult themes or images and that minors are not to view them.'' A number of critically acclaimed films _ included ``Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!,'' ``Portrait of a Serial Killer,'' ``Scandal'' and ``The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover'' _ have been rated X in recent months. The petition also was signed by Spike Lee, Rob Reiner, Jonathan Demme, Jim Jarmusch, Ron Howard, John Sayles, Penny Marshall, John Waters, Edward Zwick and John Landis, among others. It follows a similar request made this week by the National Society of Film Critics to the MPAA asking they create a new rating for mature films. Mark Lipsky, the president of film distributor Silverlight Entertainment, said he organized the directors' petition because films with X ratings are denied newspaper and television advertisements and are refused by many theaters. Films carrying the X rating, he said, often are ignored by adult viewers who might enjoy them because the rating has such negative connotations. ``And that's censorship,'' Lipsky said. ``The MPAA is being irresponsible if they don't face the issue.'' A spokeswoman for the MPAA in Washington said the organization would not be able to comment on the letter until next week. Earlier in the day, Jack Valenti, the MPAA president, said the rating system works. A New York judge ruled Thursday that the MPAA's X rating unfairly brands films for mature audiences as pornographic, and called for the organization to devise a new rating system. Judge Charles Ramos, while saying he did not have the authority to change an X rating given to the acclaimed Spanish film ``Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!,'' called the MPAA ratings system ``an effective form of censorship.'' In a scathing 15-page opinion, Ramos wrote that unless the MPAA reforms the rating system, it might find itself subject to legal challenge. He called on the organization ``to consider the proposals for a revised rating system that provides a professional basis for rating films or to cease the practice altogether.'' He said the problem ``is the need to avoid stigmatizing films of an adult nature, which ought not to be seen by children, but which are clearly not pornographic.'' ``Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!'' features one sex scene and a brief masturbation scene, and was given an X rating. Many newspapers and movie theaters prohibit advertising and exhibition of X-rated movies.
AP881126-0088 	X	The latest appointee to the city's Emergency Shelter Commission has plenty of experience dealing with the problems of people who have no place to go _ he's been homeless himself for the past two years. Michael McGuire, 71, who immigrated from Northern Ireland to the United States 37 years ago and worked as a house painter for much of his life, was appointed to the commission by Mayor Raymond Flynn. The mayor announced the appointment at a Thanksgiving dinner at the Long Island Hospital Shelter, where McGuire has lived for the past year. City officials had decided to appoint a homeless person to the panel and McGuire impressed the mayor with his ability to get along with people and his concern on the issue of homelessness, said commission director Ann Maguire. ``He is someone who had been working his whole life and, all of a sudden, he became homeless. That is a perspective that is a little different than other people we're dealing with,'' she said. McGuire said he hopes to make the most of his new position. ``I'll try to do what I can,'' he told The Boston Globe in a story published Saturday. ``I'm not a politician. ... I'm a nice guy and I'm not trouble. Maybe I can help people.'' McGuire said he is content at the shelter: ``Everybody is friendly, the nurses are lovely and they don't holler at you.'' However, he said the menu could use a little revision. ``You get a lot of macaroni here,'' he said. ``Let's see a hamburger once in a while.'' He also would like to see things like a pool table, table tennis, shuffleboard and card tables at the shelter. And he would like to move into an apartment of his own. McGuire, who was divorced about 25 years ago and has four children living in Florida, said in a telephone interview Saturday that he moved from Florida to New Jersey in the 1970s, and retired in 1977. He wouldn't say where he lived in New Jersey. He said trouble began two years ago when he came to Boston by train with a casual acquaintance he met in Penn Station in New York City. After he got off the train, his friend disappeared and he found himself stranded in a city where he knew no one. He said he started drinking and hanging out in the street. Police referred him to Boston City Hospital where he was directed to the Long Island Hospital shelter. The other commission members are a minister and representatives of the city Department of Health and Hospitals, the city Public Facilities Department and the Pine Street Inn shelter.
AP881208-0043 	X	Legislators praised Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev's announcement of a unilateral troop cut but said they want to see the words backed up with action and renewed East-West talks to reduce troop levels in Europe. With Congress out of session, few legislators were in the Capitol and most reacted cautiously, saying they wanted to see more details of how the Soviets will carry out the plan made public Wednesday by Gorbachev at the United Nations. They also noted that the Soviets now have a large numerical edge in troops and various categories of weapons in Europe. Sen. George Mitchell, D-Maine, the incoming Senate majority leader, said he welcomed Gorbachev's statement but added, ``while these proposals are commendable, they must be considered in view of overall levels of forces in Europe and the offensive structure of Soviet forces.'' Mitchell said he hopes the announcement will lead to ``the reinvigoration'' of long-stalled efforts to negotiate cuts in military strength in Europe. House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, called the speech ``certainly the most positive signal from Moscow in 70 years, much more positive because words at last are being accompanied by deeds.'' ``We must not abandon caution, but neither should we slam the door in the face of opportunity,'' Wright said in a statement. Senate Republican leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., said, ``Mr. Gorbachev has promised a lot, but can he deliver? Only his actions _ not just words _ will tell the world whether his U.N. speech becomes a one-of-a-kind Christmas gift or just another stocking stuffer. ``If we really see such cutbacks in Eastern Europe, then we might indeed be seeing a good-faith first step toward real conventional force parity; our negotiators in Vienna will be insisting on no less,'' said Dole. Sen. Tim Wirth, D-Colo., a member of the Armed Services Committee, said, ``we need to bear in mind that we in the West have heard about a number of interesting proposals from Gorbachev and other top Soviet officials. ``But what we haven't seen is any real change in Soviet military forces,'' said Wirth. ``What we have seen is largely improvements in Soviet forces.'' Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, was the most euphoric. ``Gorbachev's speech could be the end of the Cold War, the end of the arms race (and) the end of the danger of nuclear war,'' he said. ``Of course, we need deeds, not words. We have to see what the Soviets actually do.'' The top Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Sen. John Warner, R-Va., said, ``I would urge a note of caution.'' Even if the Soviets go ahead with the promised 10 percent troop reduction, Warner said, they will have ``two and one-half times as many tanks, three and one-half times as many artillery pieces.'' ``It's too early to tell exactly the impact of these dramatic announcements,'' he said. They may simply eliminate older, less capable weapons. ``The Soviet Union has quite a collection of antiquated military equipment.'' Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said Gorbachev has ``done more than anyone thought he could do politically. ``His cuts are dramatic and significant _ especially that he will make them unilaterally.'' But Aspin warned: ``Don't be distracted by all the dramatic numbers you're hearing. We don't fight wars by the numbers.'' Gorbachev promised to reorganize the Soviet military, Aspin noted, explaining that ``a reorganization that removes the Soviet offensive capability declaws the Russian bear and is far more important than numbers on a chart.'' Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called Gorbachev's statements ``profoundly welcome.'' ``If the Soviet government follows through on Gorbachev's pledge, this will challenge the United States and its allies to act imaginatively to start a similar process of arms reduction,'' said Pell. Pell said the administration should ``take advantage of the openings created by Gorbachev's speech to accelerate the momentum of arms control negotiations on conventional, as well as nuclear, weapons.''
AP880929-0063 	X	The country's highest court today upheld the death sentence of a white man convicted of killing a black policeman and trying to make the slaying look like the work of black radicals. Henry Burt, 35, faces hanging unless President P.W. Botha commutes the sentence. No execution date was announced. Burt was convicted last year of beating Sgt. Johannes Ndimande into unconsciousness in June 1986, placing a gasoline-soaked tire around his neck, and setting it on fire. No clear motive was established in the trial. That method of killing is called ``necklacing.'' The government says scores of blacks were ``necklaced'' from 1984 through 1987 by black radicals who suspected them of collaborating with white authorities. Burt, a former soldier who worked for the state-run Nuclear Development Corp., pleaded innocent at his trial, though he said he gave the policeman a lift that night. Part of Burt's defense was that he attended a meeting before the killing at which white residents complained about rising black crime. But the Appeal Court rejected that defense in today's ruling.
AP901220-0221 	X	Share prices ended lower on London's Stock Exchange Thursday, as the resignation of Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze created uncertainty in the financial markets. The resignation ``does add to the general economic uncertainty which makes markets nervous,'' said John Reynolds, equity strategist at the London brokerage firm County Natwest Woodmac. Wall Street also was having its share of jitters over the news. Throughout most of the European afternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average was under pressure, although by the close of the session in London, Wall Street appeared to be reversing its losses. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was down 19.9 points, or 0.9 percent, at 2,158.8 at the close. The Financial Times 30-share index fell 19.9 points to close at 1,687.2. The Financial Times 500-share index fell 9.79 points to close a 1,143.22. Volume was 590.2 million shares compared with 509.3 million shares Wednesday.
AP900131-0042 	X	Gov. Jim Florio accused Exxon Corp. of lax handling of a 570,000-gallon oil spill in a bird and fish sanctuary, and said the state had learned from the Exxon Valdez spill not to trust the company. Exxon, responding to Florio's comments Tuesday, defended its response to the Jan. 2 spill _ and to the Valdez disaster _ and said it would fulfill its responsibilities for the cleanup. Florio said the state Department of Environmental Protection has determined that a pipeline operator and supervisor on duty at the time of the spill in the Arthur Kill lacked the certification required by New York authorities, which shares jurisdiction for the waterway. A portion of pipe will be pulled out of the waterway, which lies between New Jersey and the New York City borough of Staten Island, and transported to Ohio for lab tests that could help determine the cause of the spill, Florio said. Exxon confirmed it was removing the pipe today for tests at its expense. Florio, the Democrat elected governor last year after a strong pro-environment campaign, said New York and New Jersey authorities had mapped out a strategy to restore the important East Coast spawning ground for birds and fish, which scientists say absorbed serious damage from the spilled heating oil. No dollar figure has been assigned to the damage, nor have cleanup costs been established. ``I want to make it clear to everyone in New Jersey that this will not be another Valdez,'' Florio said, referring to the March 28 wreck that spilled more than 10 million gallons of oil into Alaska's Prince William Sound. ``Exxon will not be allowed to hit and run. ... ``My impression of what's happening in Valdez is that Exxon seems to be inclined to wipe its hands sooner rather than later,'' Florio said. ``We're not going to allow that approach to be duplicated here.'' Exxon spokesman Leo McLean defended Exxon's cleanup in Alaska and said the company was cooperating with authorities to ``assess potential impacts ... and work toward agreement'' on the Arthur Kill cleanup. Florio reiterated claims that pipeline operators ignored warnings of a possible leak. Exxon has attributed the slow detection of the pipeline's problems to equipment failure, rather than human error. Florio said James Fitzgerald, a console operator at Exxon's Bayway refinery, had not obtained the certification required of pipeline operators by the New York Fire Department. George Leth, the shift supervisor who trained Fitzgerald, also was not certified to operate the equipment, Florio said. The lack of certification ``was another piece of information we will factor into the on-going investigation the attorney general is conducting,'' Florio said. McLean said he could not confirm or deny the certification claim until the company completed its own investigation.
AP880517-0214 	X	Clusters of olive-green parachutes drifted down to a Mediterranean beach Tuesday in a group jump by 120 paratroop veterans, most of them Americans, to mark Israel's 40th anniversary. Three U.S.-built C-130 Hercules transports circled the dunes of Palmachim Beach, about 15 miles south of Tel Aviv, to drop the members of the International Association of Airborne Veterans. ``This is my show of support for Israel,'' said Jim Costa, 58, of Charlestown, N.H., who said he lost his left leg in the Korean War and has jumped five times since with an artifical one. ``I also wanted to make this my last jump and I thought there's no better place to do it than the place where Christ walked,'' said Costa, wiping sweat from his face as he moved toward a table laden with cakes and fruits. Some paratroopers came to express solidarity with Israel, but others said a sense of adventure attracted them. Cleo Crouch of Boca Raton, Fla., at age 72 the oldest jumper, said: ``I landed on my butt and my back hurts a little, but I'm fine.'' Crouch, a retired trucking company owner, said Tuesday's jump was his third. He said he first parachuted over the Rhine River on a combat mission in March 1945, then tried a freefall on a dare in 1985. ``Everybody thinks I'm crazy,'' said Crouch. ``Where I live, the guys my age are just sitting around smoking, drinking beer and eating too much. I feel I can do everything I want to.'' In addition to 80 Americans, the group included 30 West Germans, a few Britons and Canadians, a jumper from Denmark and one from Singapore. It was the Chicago-based association's second jump over Israel since its founding five years ago. The last jump it organized was in Taiwan in November. Karl Houy, 43, a physician from Neuenkirchen, West Germany, said he participated to overcome fear that began when he broke his leg jumping in 1983. ``I was scared and I wanted to prove to myself that I can still do it,'' he said. ``I have to tell you, though, that I didn't see much of the view. I just wanted to get down safely.''
AP900303-0159 	X	The company that prepares most of the nation's bar exams filed a federal lawsuit Friday accusing a preparation service of stealing questions and undermining the integrity of the tests. The lawsuit was filed by the National Conference of Bar Examiners, or NCBE, a Chicago company that prepares the Multistate Bar Examination _ 200 multiple-choice questions administered to law graduates in 46 states. The suit accuses Multistate Legal Studies Inc. of Philadelphia and Santa Monica, Calif., of sending agents to purposely fail the bar exam, giving them the right to review the tests. While reviewing the exams, the agents memorized, photographed, hand copied or tape recorded the questions, according to the lawsuit. The suit names Multistate president Robert Feinberg as an agent. Feinberg, an attorney living in California, denied the allegations and noted that his company won a similar suit filed in 1978. The NCBE claims the ``integrity and quality of the process by which applicants are admitted to the practice of law'' was tainted by Multistate, which also operates under the name of Preliminary Multistate Bar Review. The suit seeks unspecified damages as well as injunctions against further copyright infringement. According to the suit, about 100,000 students in 40 states have enrolled in the courses with Preliminary Multistate Bar Review since 1977. The three- and six-day seminars cost $295 to $495 with an additional $395 for written materials, $100 for cassette tapes and about $50 for flashcards. The Multistate Bar Exam, used since 1972, is given twice a year on six subjects. About 58,000 applicants took the exam last year. Questions are prepared by committees of practitioners, judges and law professors and reviewed by others at a cost of about $250,000 per test form. The NCBE releases 50 questions to the public every other year, but does not reuse released questions. The NCBE also prepares other portions of the test, including a essay section and a section on professional responsibility. The Multistate Bar Examination is used in all states but Indiana, Iowa, Lousiana and Washington.
AP900529-0095 	X	President Bush and his advisers went over final preparations today for a U.S.-Soviet summit that a top aide said will tackle ``bare bone essentials'' rather than tallying up agreements to sign. Bush and Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev will likely issue a statement of progress on nuclear arms reductio as sign various cultural and economic agreements when they meet this week, said a senior admin talks, as wellnistration official who briefed White House reporters. But the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, cast doubt on prospects for a U.S.-Soviet trade agreement before Gorbachev leaves. ``We're in a rather uncertain state about what exactly will happen on the trade agreement,'' the official said, citing U.S. unhappiness over Soviet actions in Lithuania and the Soviets' failure to enact legislation allowing free emigration. Still, the official said, ``This is not a summit devoted to the celebration of agreements that we can sign. It is a summit designed to do the hard work of trying to overcome the remaining obstacles that stand in the way of transforming East-West relations.'' ``We are now dow: Education Program.
AP900507-0107 	X	World Jewish Congress officials said Monday economic hardship has fueled anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe and they planned a solemn ceremony at the site where Nazis plotted the extermination of the Jews. On the second day of the congress' annual meeting, a U.S. Justice Department official said Washington has rejected Austrian President Kurt Waldheim's repeated requests for a lifting of the ban that keeps him out of the country. The official said the ban remains in effect because of Waldheim's role ``Nazi-sponsored persecution.'' The three-day meeting in Berlin is the Congress' first in Germany since the organization was founded in Switzerland in 1936 amid the horrors of the Third Reich. Some delegates declined to attend, saying a visit to Berlin, the former Nazi capital, would be too traumatic. Six million Jews were killed by the Nazis between January 1933 and May 1945. On Tuesday, Congress officials will visit Berlin's Wannsee Villa, where on Jan. 20, 1942 leading Nazi officials plotted the Third Reich's so-called Final Solution to exterminate Jews worldwide. A solemn ceremony at the villa will coincide with the 45th anniversary of the Nazis' unconditional surrender in World War II. Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir used the anniversary to speak out against arms sales to the Jewish state's Arab enemies. He told Israel's Parliament that a united Germany should ``learn the lessons of the past'' and not sell weapons to Arab nations. At a news conference Monday in the heavily guarded West Berlin Jewish Community headquarters, World Jewish Congress leaders warned about present dangers and emphasized the need to recall past tragedies. ``The Jewish people have something to say to the new Germany that is going to be created in a short time,'' said Congress President Edgar M. Bronfman. He opened the meeting Sunday by saying a united Germany must ``forever teach'' about the Holocaust, ``the lowest point ever reached in man's inhumanity to man.'' Congress leaders said that in Eastern Europe there were indications of growing anti-Semitism, fueled in large part by economic hardship. Decades of Communist mismanagement have driven the economies of East European countries to the brink. Many jobless youths have turned to right-wing extremism, often blaming Jews and foreigners for economic ills. ``Unfortunately, as the economic situation worsens ... and the search for scapegoats goes on, the age-old scapegoat _ the Jew _ again takes his place in the forefront of those to be kicked around,'' Bronfman said. ``When you see tens of thousands of Jews leaving the Soviet Union and going to Israel, one of the main reasons they're going is because of the rise of anti-Semitism,'' he said. Hundreds of thousands of Jews are expected to emigrate to Israel over the next years, in part because of looser Soviet emigration policy but also in response to what they say is increasing religious persecution at home. There are up to 2 million Soviet Jews. Bronfman said that when he visited Poland a few months ago, government leaders and Solidarity chief Lech Walesa issued ``strong statements'' against anti-Semitism. ``The only way to fight it is to expose it,'' Bronfman said of anti-Jewish feeling. Lionel Kopelowitz, head of the European Jewish Congress, said there were indications of growing anti-Jewish feeling in Romania. ``The people are hungry. They look for a scapegoat,'' he said of Romania, home to about 25,000 Jews. Heinz Galinksi, leader of West Germany's 35,000-member Jewish community, said he also sees increased neo-Nazi activities and anti-Semitism in East Germany. Neo-Nazis and other rightists recently went on a rampage in East Berlin, shouting insults against Jews and foreigners. Galinski, a survivor of the Auschwitz death camp, said the Congress meeting in Berlin was ``perhaps one of the most important events'' since the downfall of Nazi Germany. The World Jewish Congress executive director, Elan Steinberg, said 10 percent of delegates from outside East and West Germany declined to participate. About 80 of the 600 delegates were from countries other than East and West Germany. ``There are people who will not come to Berlin, and they have a right not to come to Berlin,'' Bronfman said. ``We're dealing with huge, huge emotions here.'' Neal M. Sher, head of the U.S. Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, said in a speech to delegates that ``Kurt Waldheim had engaged in Nazi-sponsored persecution.'' The U.S. government in April 1987 put Waldheim, an officer in the German army during World War II, on a ``watch list'' of people denied entry into the country. The ban followed allegations Waldheim was involved in Nazi atrocities during the war. Waldheim has denied wrongdoing. ``It is also well-known that Waldheim has tried hard and often to be a removed from the list,'' Sher said. ``But all such approaches to our government have been rebuffed. He will remain persona non grata.''
AP900416-0150 	X	ABC's ``Roseanne'' edged NBC's ``The Cosby Show'' as prime-time ratings champ in the just-concluded 1989-1980 season, NBC announced Monday. ABC's Tuesday comedy starring Roseanne Barr averaged a 23.3 rating, two-tenths of a ratings point more than the Bill Cosby family comedy which has been first in the Nielson ratings for the last four seasons. ``The Cosby Show,'' wound up in second place for the season. Cosby's series has been on the air for six seasons, and Barr's series for two. Each ratings point represents 921,000 homes. Final figures for the 30-week season, which ended Sunday, won't be available until Tuesday. But network research analysts say that NBC will easily win its fifth consecutive season, with ABC coming in second, and once-dominant CBS in third place for the third straight season. Still awaiting final figures for the last three days of the season, Preston Beckman, NBC vice-president for research, said that NBC thus far had a 14.6 ratings average, ABC a 12.9 and CBS a 12.2 during the season. NBC's ratings are down by nine percent, ABC's are flat, and those of CBS are down by three percent, he said. He cited competition from cable, the fledgling Fox network, and independent stations as factors in the overall ratings drop. However, he attributed 25 percent of NBC's decline to the absence of three sports events it had in prime time during the previous season _ the Summer Olypmics, the World Series and pro football's Superbowl.
AP880915-0056 	X	Honduran security forces early Thursday arrested 16 Americans who demonstrated in front of the U.S. Embassy and at a U.S. air base to protest Washington's policy in Central America. Maj. Manuel Urbina, spokesman for the Public Security Forces, said four Americans who protested in front of the embassy were being held at the Casamata prison in the capital. Another 12 who staged a one-hour protest at the U.S. air base in Palmerola, about 40 miles northwest of the capital were being held at a police jail in Comayagua, four miles away, Urbina said. He said the arrests were made without resistance and the Americans would probably be expelled. U.S. officials in Honduras could not be reached immediately for comment. Urbina said none of the demonstrators carried passports or identification. In Guatemala City, four Americans threw blood on the steps of the U.S. Embassy Wednesday and chained themselves to the gates of the compound in a protest against U.S. policy in Central America. The protests were organized by a group called Project Independence and held one day before Central American countries celebrate the anniversary of their independence from Spain in 1821. John Mateyko, a spokesman for the group in Washington, said the protest was ``religious-based and non-violent'' against what he called ``the immoral and dangerous policy'' of the Reagan administration in Central America. Mateyko identified the four demonstrators in Tegucigalpa as John Bach, 41, of Hartford, Conn.; Teri Allen, 30, of Hartford; Patricia McCallum, 47, of Cambridge, Mass., and Mark Fryer, 31, of West Creek, Pa. The names of those being held in Camayagua were not immediately available. Mateyko identified the demonstrators in Guatemala City as Charley Litky, 57, a Congressional Medal of Honor winner for his service as a Roman Catholic priest in Vietnam, and Sara Story, 26, both of Washington, D.C.; Dale Ashera-Davis, 34, of Baltimore, Md.; and John Schuchardt, 49, of Leverett, Mass. ``At this time of remembering Central American independence from Spain we've come to join with Central Americans in declaring its independence from U.S. domination,'' a declaration read by the group said. ``In eight years neither (President) Reagan or (Vice President George) Bush seems to have figured out that that's all these people want,'' it said. The demonstrators, who threw blood on the embassy steps before chaining themselves to the gates, were demanding an audience with the U.S. ambassador to Guatemala, James Michel. By Wednesday evening, the four were still chained to the embassy gates as Guatemalan National Police officers looked on.
AP900412-0036 	X	The Nikkei Stock Average closed at 29,623.20, up 182.92 points, or 0.62 percent on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Thursday.
AP880505-0342 	X	Kraft Inc. said Thursday it was selling its fast-growing Duracell battery division to a group led by management and the investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. in a cash deal worth $1.8 billion. Kraft said it agreed to sell Duracell Inc., the world's leading maker of alkaline consumer batteries, to concentrate on its core food business. Proceeds from the sale would be used to buy back up to 12 million Kraft shares, to reduce debt and for possible food-related acquisition, the company said. ``... We are excited about the many opportunities available to Kraft in the food industry, and the sale of Duracell will enable us to focus our total management and financial resources on those opportunities,'' said Kraft Chairman John M. Richman. Kraft informed its shareholders of the definitive agreement at its annual meeting Thursday in Chicago. Kraft, which acquired Bethel, Conn.-based Duracell in 1980, had announced in December that it planned to sell the unit. Henry R. Kravis, a partner in New York-based Kohlberg Kravis, called the agreement ``the first step in the creation of a great new independent consumer-products company.'' ``We are very excited about the future growth prospects of the company and our future association with the management and employees of Duracell,'' he said. Some analysts expressed surprise at the price Kohlberg Kravis agreed to pay for Duracell, which had been widely expected to fetch between $1 billion and $1.2 billion. ``It never ceases to amaze me what a good brand is worth in today's marketplace,'' said John W. McMillin of Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. ``This was pleasant news for Kraft shareholders.'' In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Kraft rose $1.50 a share to close at $53.50. McMillin said Kohlberg Kravis probably was attracted by Duracell's strong growth potential. Duracell, which has about 9,000 employees, had an operating income of $140 million and sales of $1.1 billion last year. Kraft's 1987 sales, excluding Duracell, were $9.9 billion. Duracell's copper-top alkaline batteries account for about 28 percent of all U.S. consumer battery sales. The company is tied with Ralston Purina Co.'s Eveready unit for the lead in domestic sales of alkaline batteries, the fastest-growing segment of the battery market. Together, Eveready and Duracell have more than 80 percent of the domestic alkaline-battery market, McMillin said. Duracell does not compete in the carbon-zinc battery market, which is dominated by Eveready. ``With all these Walkmans and portable tape recorders that have to use batteries, the alkaline segment has been exhibiting strong volume growth and that is what had to attract these investors,'' McMillin said. Analysts said they did not expect Duracell to diversify as a stand-alone company. ``It could happen in time, but certainly not immediately,'' said Lawrence Adelman, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in New York. ``When you do a leveraged buyout you've got to use the cash generated internally to reduce debt, so you've got to pretty much stick to your own business.'' Duracell is being sold to Duracell Holdings Corp., the new company formed by Kohlberg Kravis and Duracell's management. Kohlberg Kravis specializes in leveraged buyouts, in which a company is acquired mainly through borrowed funds repaid from the target company's profits or asset sales.
AP900711-0132 	X	The United States and its partners at the economic summit sidestepped differences on global warming Wednesday, but issued an environmental declaration that emphasized forestry protection. The seven leaders pledged to negotiate an international agreement to curb deforestation as expeditiously as possible. The environmental declaration contained mostly general language on global warming and called for an international convention on the subject to be completed by 1992. The United Nations is already working on the issue. The Bush administration prevailed in blocking European wishes to specify exactly how much the industrialized nations should reduce carbon dioxide emissions that contribute to global warming. Carbon dioxide has been estimated to account for about 55 percent of global warming, but the timing and the degree to which the earth is expected to become hotter are uncertain. West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said Germany had wanted tougher commitments in the area of emissions, but added, ``We can live with'' the communique. Environmental groups immediately lambasted the summit as having failed to produce substantive progress on environmental concerns. President Bush fired back, saying he wasn't out to ``get some brownie points'' from the environmental groups. He told a news conference that the summit had produced ``a reasoned position, not a radical position that's going to throw a lot of American men and women out of jobs.'' The summit declaration emphasized forestry planks. It called for immediate negotiations to forge a worldwide forestation program; a World Bank plan to stop destruction of Brazil's tropical rain forests, and a toughening of the World Bank's current Tropical Forestry Action Plan to emphasize ``conservation and biological diversity.'' ``The destruction of forests has reached alarming proportions,'' the summit communique said. A forestry program could end up helping combat global warming eventually because trees absorb the carbon dioxide emissions that are contributing to the earth's warming. Scientists say 20 percent of global warming is due to deforestation. Kohl said he was pleased about the summit leaders' commitment on Brazilian rain forests. ``The continuing destruction of tropical forests must be stopped through an immediate program,'' he said. The leaders said the forestry agreement should be ready for signing by 1992. The general language of the summit communique stated: ``We as industrialized countries have an obligation to be leaders in meeting these challenges'' on climate change, ozone depletion, deforestation, marine pollution, and the loss of biological diversity. But environmentalists said the seven leaders had abandoned their promise at their Paris summit a year ago to take decisive, urgent action on environmental problems. ``Despite their green rhetoric, the G-7 leaders leave Houston in the red on the environment,'' the Envirosummit coalition of prominent environmental groups said. The group welcomed the promise of a forestry protection plan, however. ``The summit is a failure on the environment because they did nothing on global warming,'' said Dan Becker of the Sierra Club. ``In order to cover over their inaction on global warming, they've added a fig leaf on rain forests.'' On the contentious issue of global warming, the communique included vague compromise language calling for ``appropriate implementing protocols'' to stem global warming ``as expeditiously as possible'' but it was unclear whether such protocols would have to wait until after a 1992 convention on global warming. The Bush administration says more research is needed on climate change before dramatic steps are taken to curb carbon dioxide emissions.
AP900801-0265 	X	In another sign of sluggishness in the nation's economy, businesses in July slashed orders for manufactured goods and reduced inventories, the National Association of Purchasing Management said Wednesday. It was the first drop in the group's measurement of the manufacturing sector in three months and gave further weight to a belief the nation's economy may be slipping into a recession. A measurement of activity by chief purchasing executives at more than 300 industrial companies tumbled in July to its lowest rate since January, in its sharpest monthly decline since January 1984. ``It reflects a weakening manufacturing sector, so the cutting edge is getting dull,'' said Robert Brusca, chief economist for Nikko Securities International Inc. ``Businessmen are going to become even more cautious.'' The association's Purchasing Managers Index fell to 47.4 percent in July from 51.1 percent the previous month, ending three months of increases. A reading below 50 indicates the manufacturing economy generally is declining. The index, a composite of survey results on order levels, prices, inventory and other areas, had been below 50 for 11 straight months. It averaged 48.8 percent in the first seven months of 1990. July's reading was the lowest since 45.2 percent in January. The decline was the sharpest since the index fell about nine percentage points in early 1984, economists said. Orders from manufacturers tumbled to 46.2 percent from 54.9 percent in June. The rate was the lowest since January ``and will undoubtedly weaken, if not decrease the recent modest growth in production,'' the association said. The group's production index was above 50 for the sixth straight month, but fell to 52.1 percent from 53.9 percent. It was the lowest level in five months. Inventories declined for the 20th straight month, at a pace sharper than the previous month. The group's inventories index fell to 39.3 percent from 42.9 percent in June as purchasers cut the volume of July orders and used existing inventories. ``The sharp decline in new orders apparently caused purchasers to reduce the quantity of purchases and work off existing inventories,'' said Robert J. Bretz, chairman of the association's business survey committee. ``The weakness of new orders in July now casts a shadow over the previous expectations for continued growth in the economy in the third quarter,'' he said. Bond prices, which improve on news of economic softening, surged after the report was issued. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond finished up more than $6.50 per $1,000 in face value, with its yield tumbling to 8.35 percent from 8.41 percent late Tuesday. Some economists play down the significance of the purchasing managers report because manufacturing accounts for only about 20 percent of economic activity. But others said manufacturing is a leading indicator of overall business activity, and that even the service sector has shown signs of weakness. ``I think it's telling us the economy is weak again and businesses are making an effort to reduce inventories,'' said Robert Chandross, chief economist with Lloyds Bank PLC in New York. In other segments, the report said export orders increased while imports declined for the third consecutive month. Prices for manufacturing products, which include metals, textiles, sulfur, lumber and fuels, held steady, indicating no movement in inflation. Employment decreased for the 17th straight month, at a slightly lesser rate than in June.
AP900405-0011 	X	Modern dance pioneer Alwin Nikolais is accustomed to worldwide acclaim, but he confesses he was terrified by the squirming second-graders who attended the world premiere of his new ``space fantasy'' for children. ``Children frighten me,'' said Nikolais, a 79-year-old bachelor. ``You never can know what their reaction might be, unless you're around them a lot. I'm not around children very much, so it was doubly terrifying.'' Nikolais needn't have worried. Moments after the curtain rose Tuesday on ``The Crystal and the Sphere,'' his stage voyage through the galaxy of a child's imagination, Nikolais clearly had won the hearts of 500 local school children who packed the Kennedy Center's Terrace Theater. The kids squealed as the house lights dimmed and the rumble of thunder shook their seats. They oohed and aahed as the rising curtain revealed a 20-foot balloon rocking gently on the stage, like a strange new planet, and a 12-foot shard of crystal bathed in celestial lights. They giggled at the wondrous aliens that cavorted across the stage _ a mermaid who teasingly tied her kelp tresses to an angler's hook, a pair of fat, web-footed birds that splashed in musical mud puddles, herky-jerky androids ablaze in ultraviolet hues who disappeared in the twinkling of an eye. Nikolais did it all _ choreography, synthesizer musical score, scenery and costumes _ in creating the $20,000 centerpiece for this year's ``Imagination Celebration,'' the Kennedy Center's annual arts festival for children. His new work, performed by five hand-picked dancers from New York, is being presented nine times this week at the Kennedy Center before it travels to children's festivals at the El Centro Theater in Dallas, April 18-20, and the Orange County Performing Arts Center in Costa Mesa, Calif., April 25-26. ``The first show is a terror,'' said Nikolais, sighing happily after the curtain fell on his latest premiere. He hadn't created a dance work for youngsters since he was director of the Henry Street Playhouse in New York in the late 1940s, when his company staged a dozen popular ``dance plays'' for children. Since then, he has been cheered by audiences and critics around the world _ and received the coveted National Medal of Arts from President Reagan in 1987 _ as a modern dance visionary. In a way, Nikolais said, his work on ``The Crystal and the Sphere'' meant returning to the world of children after a 40-year absence. ``They haven't changed,'' he said. ``They're made the same way and they behave the same way. It's that I'm rediscovering them again.'' Nikolais tried to envision the unearthly creatures a child might encounter on an imaginary exploration of the planets. ``Like most artists, I have a childlike mind with a certain innocence that allows me to do things that others don't dare to do,'' he said. ``I do know that children love color, and they like motions that they don't see all the time. I thought they'd like these curious, angular body shapes, and dancers who suddenly appeared and disappeared. ``Children also like strange sounds. You don't hear them humming Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. They like the big bang, like the world's coming to an end. And what really scares them is the lights going out, and being left in the dark. That always makes them yelp.'' Nikolais' vision scored a hit with at least one member of the audience Tuesday. When the lights went up after the 45-minute show, a little girl turned to a schoolmate and asked, ``It's over already?''
AP900105-0211 	X	Many of the nation's big retailers reported that they got what they expected but not necessarily what they wanted for Christmas: conservative sales growth. General merchandise chains, department stores and discounters on Thursday posted December results that mostly met their expectations for a moderate holiday season. Analysts said the industry was saved from a lackluster sales performance by price discounts, aggressive advertising and special promotions.
AP880307-0233 	X	China's Communist Party has proposed amending the national constitution to protect the rights of private businesses and permit the transfer of land-use rights, the official China Daily said Monday. The report said the amendments would ensure privately owned entities, an increasingly important sector in the Chinese economy, the right to exist and develop as a complement to China's socialist system. Private businesses, defined as individually owned enterprises with eight or more workers, have existed since 1981, two years after China launched economic reform programs based on encouraging personal initiative and a market-oriented economy. The newspaper said there are now about 225,000 such enterprises. China also has what it calls an individual economy, about 18 million people who run street stalls and other one-man or family operations. The newspaper said the party has submitted the proposals to the National People's Congress Standing Committee, which opened a meeting Saturday, and asked the committee to put them on the agenda of the annual full session of the NPC, convening later this month.
AP880330-0197 	X	A fast-moving storm brewing in the southwestern United States dumped up to a half a foot of snow on parts of Utah on Wednesday and threatened Wyoming and Colorado with heavy snow. Utah's higher elevations got 6 inches of snow before skies cleared Wednesday afternoon. Salt Lake City received 3 inches of snow in six hours; in Utah's western desert, Tooele got 5 inches. Snow advisories were issued through Thursday morning for southwest Utah and the northern and central mountains of Colorado, where up to 8 inches was expected. A winter storm watch also was posted for south-central and southeastern Wyoming, where up to 10 inches of snow was forecast. Farther south, showers and thunderstorms developed along a stationary front extending from Texas' lower Rio Grande Valley across Louisiana into Mississippi. The eastern United States continued to enjoy unseasonably warm weather, with highs in the 70s from the central and eastern Gulf Coast to the Middle Atlantic States. Heavier rainfall totals for the six-hour period ending at 1 p.m. EST included 1.56 inches at Alexandria, La., and 1.29 inches at Baton Rouge, La. Temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. EST ranged from 24 degrees at Yellowstone Park, Wyo., to 87 at the Southwest Regional Airport in Fort Myers, Fla. The early morning low for the nation was 3 degrees above zero at International Falls, Minn. Thursday's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms extending from the southern and central Appalachians through the mid-Mississippi Valley and across much of the southern and central Plains. Rain was expected from Kentucky and Tennessee into Kansas, Oklahoma and northern Texas. Snow was forecast for the central Rockies and the central high Plains, eastern Colorado and western Nebraska. Fair skies should prevail over the rest of the nation. High temperatures should be below 50 degrees from much of the Rockies to the upper Great Lakes, including highs only in the 30s and upper 20s from northern Arizona across much of Colorado and Wyoming to western South Dakota. Highs should reach in the 60s and 70s from the southern and central Pacific Coast through southern Arizona and the southern high Plains to the southern and mid-Atlantic Coast, and in the 50s in most of the rest of the nation.
AP881014-0193 	X	The number of illegal aliens apprehended on the southern U.S. border has reached a six-year low, but the numbers of non-Mexican aliens arrested increased over fiscal 1987, immigration officials said Friday. ``The decline in apprehensions confirms the downward trend that began immediately after passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act and shows that the law is working as it was intended,'' said Alan C. Nelson, commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Apprehensions totaled more than 940,000 in the fiscal year ending Oct. 1, while there were 1.12 million apprehensions in fiscal 1987 and a record 1.62 million in 1986. At a news conference, Nelson acknowledged that temporary reassignment of some border control agents during the fiscal year may account for some of the decline. He said other factors are the decreased number of illegal aliens in the United States because of mass legalizations under the 1986 immigration act and the fact that drought conditions contributed to less demand for farm laborers. The number of non-Mexican immigrants apprehended increased last fiscal year to 39,000 from 37,000 in 1987, other officials said, with about a fourth of those each year from El Salvador and the rest from more than 100 other countries. Nelson said the fact that the trend has not been the same for non-Mexicans is probably ``a function of distance.'' He said people who have to travel greater distances from other countries to the border are more likely not to be deterred by aggressive enforcement or changes in immigration laws. Nelson said the INS increased its Border Patrol forces to record numbers during the year, with plans to have 1,400 new agents on duty by next June, bringing the total along the southern border to 4,300. Investigation staff has increased 75 percent since last fiscal year, he said. This has resulted in apprehension of 50,000 criminal aliens, up from 33,500 a year earlier, Nelson said. ``These figures show we are making more effective use of our enforcement resources by concentrating them on the most serious problems of illegal immigration _ that is, we go after the aliens who are causing the most harm to society,'' he said. Border Patrol seizures of narcotics along the southern border increased from 2,751 cases to more than 3,000 last year, increasing in value by $100 million to $681.1 million for the fiscal year, Nelson said. He said the INS has received 2.65 million applications for temporary resident status under the immigration law, including nearly twice as many as expected under the less restrictive program for special agricultural workers _ more than 890,000. Nelson said 97.5 percent of regular applications and 92 percent of those under the agricultural program are approved. Farm-worker applicants have to show only that they worked on a U.S. farm for 90 days during the previous year to get legal status. Officials say there are some cases of obvious fraud in the program, including applicants who obviously are too well manicured to be farm workers and some who claim such things as having picked strawberries from trees. Of pending cases, 168,000 are suspected to be fraudulent applicants, including 136,000 for the agricultural program, said Nelson. He said fewer than 51,000 applications have been denied under the immigration act, with 2,844 involving fraud.
AP900212-0137 	X	Sudan and the Central African Republic announced Monday the resumption of diplomatic ties broken last May. The official Sudan News Agency said the announcement came during an unexpected visit to the Central African Republic capital Bangui by Lt. Gen. Omar el-Bashir, Sudan's military strongman. He met with Andre Kolingba, president of Central African Republic, and they later issued a joint communique saying the two neighbors were restoring diplomatic relations, reopening their borders and resuming air service. The two countries severed links May 30 after Sudan, then under civilian Prime Minister Sadek el-Mahdi, refused to allow a Central African plane to cross Sudanese airspace en route to Israel. Kolingba was aboard the plane, but Sudan said it had not known it at the time. It said it was merely following a general Arab ban on flights heading for Israel. A junta led by el-Bashir overthrew el-Mahdi's civilian administration June 30.
AP880413-0088 	X	Demolitions experts disarmed three powerful homemade bombs at a New Jersey Turnpike rest area and arrested a man for possession of explosives, police said. Lt. Barry Roberson, a state police spokesman, said the bombs and some leftover explosive materials were discovered in the car of a man attempting to flee a trooper Tuesday morning. Trooper Robert Cieplinsky told his superiors he had noticed the man acting suspiciously near a parked car at turnpike rest area less than 10 miles west of New York City, Roberson said. Cieplinsky stopped the car and noticed a black gym bag filled with gunpowder canisters and small pellets, which Roberson described as objects used to make homemade bombs. The trooper discovered the three bombs in the trunk of the car, Roberson said, and arrested the man for possession of an explosive device. Roberson declined to give the man's name and said an investigation was continuing. Cieplinsky closed off a portion of the rest area and called for assistance from the state police bomb and explosives investigative team, who used a water cannon to saturate the devices and render them inoperable, Roberson said. In Tokyo, a Foreign Ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the ministry had received information through the Japanese Embassy in Washington that the man detained in New Jersey for possession of explosives was carrying a Japanese passport. He said the ministry would seek more details about the man and provide information to U.S. investigators, but declined to give further details. Japan's Kyodo News Service reported that Japanese authorities believe the man held in the United States may have a forged passport or may have obtained it illegally. Kyodo said Japanese investigators would ask the United States to send the fingerprints of the man detained for identification.
AP880212-0078 	X	The U.S. Embassy will provide $25,000 to help victims of floods and mudslides that killed at least 196 people and left more than 10,000 homeless in Rio de Janeiro state, it was announced Friday. U.S. Consul-General Louis Schwartz will give a check for that amount to Gov. Wellington Moreira Franco on Saturday, the consulate's press office reported. It said the money is the total amount in the embassy's emergency fund. Such funds are provided by the U.S. government to its embassies around the world. In addition to the embassy fund, the United States has offered to provide Brazil with emergency supplies. Most of the money is expected to go to Petropolis, a mountain resort 40 miles north of Rio de Janeiro city. Civil defense officials said Friday that 12 days of rains caused flooding and landslides that killed 163 people in Petropolis and left 3,947 people homeless. U.S. consular officials visited Petropolis to check on the families of two U.S. citizens living there and found they were not seriously affected, the press office said. Other countries that have offered Brazil aid supplies include Britain, France, Italy and Nicaragua.
AP880611-0045 	X	A county prosecutor said he would investigate the fatal shooting of a Hispanic man by an off-duty police officer, and for the first time in three nights this industrial city was relatively quiet. Some people drove by police and yelled insults at them Friday night, witnesses said, adding that police yelled insults back. However, unlike Wednesday and Thursday nights, there were no incidents of violence reported. Mayor George J. Otlowski and Hispanic leaders hammered out an agreement in a three-hour meeting with Middlesex County Prosecutor Alan Rockoff, less than 24 hours after about 1,000 rioters clashed with police following the funeral for the slain man. Rockoff said after Friday's meeting that his office will investigate the shooting and present the case to a county grand jury. The two sides also agreed to form a commission to investigate bias in the city of about 39,000 and to form a community council to hear grievances about police conduct, he said. ``Most of the people here really want justice,'' said the Rev. Richard Todd of Our Lady of Fatima Roman Catholic Church, where the funeral for the slain man was held Thursday. ``But they also want peace in our town. ``A lot of what happened last night was because when crowds get big there is not a lot of control,'' Todd said Friday. Terms of the agreement were printed and distributed in the city's Hispanic community Friday. The population of Perth Amboy, about 15 miles south of Newark, is evenly divided between whites and Hispanics. The earlier violence was touched off when off-duty narcotics officer Allen C. Fuller shot and killed Carmen Coria and critically wounded Coria's brother, Matteo, outside a bar early Monday. Fuller said he fired at the men because he believed his life was threatened by Carmen Coria, who he said approached him holding a bottle. Fuller was suspended with pay pending the outcome of the investigation.
AP880309-0374 	X	A major Japanese trading firm and an agricultural group that imports about 40 percent of the nation's feed grain will jointly purchase a U.S. grain company, a spokesman said Wednesday. The National Federation of Agricultural Cooperative Associations, or Zennoh, and C. Itoh Co., one of Japan's three largest trading houses, are completing an agreement to buy Consolidated Grain and Barge of St. Louis, Missouri, said a C. Itoh official, speaking on condition of anonymity. The official said final details, including the purchase price and the share of investment by each party, would be worked out by the end of April. A Zennoh official said his organization planned to link its New Orleans-based export arm, the Zennoh Grain Center, with Consolidated Grain, which handles 3.3 million tons of corn and 750,000 tons of soybeans a year. Consolidated Grain, which operates primarily in Ohio, Illinois, Missouri and Iowa, controls 30 grain silos and 650 barges used to transport grain. The Zennoh official, who also insisted on anonymity, denied a report in the Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun that Zennoh would use the company to apply pressure on grain-growing regions where farmers are pushing for an end to Japan's restrictions on beef and citrus fruit imports. Zennoh, which handles almost 40 percent of the 1.5 million tons of feed grain imported annually into Japan, has condemned U.S. demands for an end to the quotas.
AP900723-0051 	X	Sacha Pitoeff, an actor and director best known for his stage productions of Chekhov and Pirandello, has died of a heart ailment, associates said today. He was 70. Pitoeff, who died in a Paris hospital Saturday, was the last survivor of a theatrical dynasty founded by his Russian-born parents, Georges and Ludmilla Pitoeff. Born in Geneva on March 11, 1920, Pitoeff joined his father's company in 1938. His father died in 1939, and his mother took over the company and kept it functioning in Switzerland during World War II. Pitoeff formed his own company in France in 1949, and become renowned for productions of Chekhov classics such as ``The Sea Gull,'' ``The Cherry Orchard'' and ``Uncle Vanya.'' He also produced on several occasions, most recently in 1977, one the plays favored by his parents, Luigi Pirandello's ``Six Characters in Search of an Author.'' He acted in several films, including ``Last Year At Marienbad.'' Funeral arrangements were pending.
AP900108-0203 	X	The daughter of former Campbell Soup Co. Chairman John T. Dorrance Jr. has reaffirmed her vow to fight any attempt by rival family shareholder groups to sell the food industry giant. In a statement released Sunday by their New York law firm, Mary Alice Malone and her husband, Stuart, owners of about 10 percent of the company's outstanding stock, confirmed their ``commitment to the continued independence of Campbell Soup Company.'' ``We have always considered our investment in Campbell to be long-term,'' said the statement attributed to Ms. Malone. Signs of a possible rift in the Dorrance family, which has controlled the Camden, N.J.-based company for nearly a century, has fueled speculation that major stockholders are split on the issue of whether to sell the company. Ms. Malone, a company director, and her two brothers, John T. Dorrance III and Bennett Dorrance, together hold about 31 percent of the company's outstanding shares. In recent weeks, a group comprised of Dorrance cousins has announced its intention in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission to press for a sale of the company. Last week, Campbell filled its long-vacant top spot by hiring David W. Johnson, former head of Gerber Products Co., as its new chief executive officer. ``We are extremely excited about David W. Johnson's immense managerial talents and his contagious enthusiasm,'' Ms. Malone's statement continued. ``In particular, we are inspired by his proven track record of dealing successfully with the myriad of complex intangibles that arise in very large family-held companies.''
AP881005-0240 	X	Moderator: Jon Margolis, question for Sen. Quayle. Q: Sen. Quayle, in recent years the Reagan administration has scaled back the activities of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, prompted in part by Vice President Bush's task force on regulatory relief. The budget for the agency has been cut by 20 percent, and the number of inspections at manufacturing plants have been reduced by 33 percent. This has had a special effect in this area where many people work in the meat-packing industry, which has a far higher rate of serious injuries than almost any other injury, a rate which appears to have been rising, although we're not really sure because some of the largest companies have allegedly been falsifying their reports. Would you acknowledge to the hundreds of injured and maimed people in Nebraska, Iowa, and elsewhere in the Midwest that, in this case, deregulation may have gone too far and the government should reassert itself in protecting workers' rights? Quayle: The premise of your question, Jon, is that somehow this administration has been lax in enforcement of the OSHA regulations, and I disagree with that, and I'll tell you why. If you want to ask some business people that I've talked to periodically, they complain about the tough enforcement of this administration. And furthermore, let me tell you this for the record, when we have found violations in this administration there has not only been tough enforcement, but there have been the most severe penalties _ the largest penalties in the history of the Department of Labor _ have been levied when these violations have been found. There is a commitment, and there will always be a commitment, to the safety of our working men and women. They deserve it, and we're committed to them. Now, the broader question goes to the whole issue of deregulation, and has deregulation worked or has deregulation not worked? In my judgment, deregulation has worked. We have a deregulated economy and we have produced through low taxes, not high taxes, through deregulation, the spirit of entrepreneurship, the individual going out and starting a business, the businessman or woman willing to go out and risk their investment and start up a business and hire people _ we have produced 17 million jobs in this country since 1982. Deregulation as a form of political philosophy is a good philosophy. It's one that our opponents disagree with. They want a centralized government. But we believe in the market; we believe in the people. And yes, there's a role of government and the role of government is to make sure that those safety and health and welfare of the people is taken care of. And we'll continue to do that. Moderator: Sen. Bentsen? Bentsen: I think you see once again a piece of Democratic legislation that's been passed to try to protect the working men and women of America. And then you've seen an administration that came in and really didn't have its heart in that kind of an enforcement. A good example of that is the environmental protection laws that we were talking about a moment ago. This administration came in and put in a James Watt and Anne Gorsuch. Now that's the Bonnie and Clyde, really, of environmental protection. And that's why it's important that you have people that truly believe, and trying to represent the working men and women of America. Most employers do a good job of that, but some of them put their profits before people. And that's why you have to have OSHA, and that's why you have to have tough and good and fair enforcement of it. And that's what a Democratic administration would do to help make this working place a safer and a better place to be employed. Moderator: Jon Margolis, another question for Senator Bentsen. Q: Sen. Bentsen, since you have been in the Senate, the government has spent increasing amounts of money in an effort to protect the family farmer. But most of the subsidies seem to go, do go, to the largest and richest farmers, who presumably need it least, while it's the smaller farmers who are often forced to sell out, sometimes to their large farmer neighbor who's gotten more subsidies to begin with. Despite the fact that I believe you, sir, are rather a large farmer yourself, do you believe it's time to uncouple the subsidy formula from the amount of land a farmer has and target federal money to the small- and medium-size farmer? Bentsen: Well, I've supported that. I voted for the 50,000 limitation to get away from the million dollar contributions to farmers. You know, of the four that are on this ticket, I'm the only one that was born and reared on a farm, and still involved in farming. So I think I understand their concerns and their problems. Now, I feel very strongly that we ought to be doing more for the American farmer, and what we've seen under this administration is neglect of that farmer. We've seen them drive 220,000 farmers off the farm. They seem to think the answer is, ``Move 'em to town.'' But we ought not to be doing that. What you have seen them do is cut farm assistance for the rural areas by over 50 percent. We're seeing rural hospitals close all over the country because of this kind of an administration. We've seen an administration that has lost much of our market abroad because they have not had a trade policy. We saw our market lost by some 40 percent. And that's one of the reasons that we've seen the cost of the farm program, which was only about $2.5 billion when they took office, now go to about $25 billion. Now we can bring that kind of a cost down and get more to market prices if we'll have a good trade policy. I was, in January, visiting with Mr. Takeshita, the new prime minister of Japan. I said, ``You're paying five times as much for beef as we pay for in our country -- pay for it in our country -- six times as much for rice. You have a $60 billion trade surplus with us. You could improve the standard of living of your people. You're spending 27 percent of your disposable income on food. We spend 14 or 15 percent. When you have that kind of a barrier up against us, that's not free and fair trade, and we don't believe that should continue. We would be pushing very hard to open up those markets, and stand up for the American farmer. And see that we recapture those foreign markets, and I think we can do it with a Dukakis-Bentsen administration. Moderator: Sen. Quayle. Quayle: Sen. Bentsen talks about recapturing the foreign markets. Well, I'll tell you one way that we're not going to recapture the foreign markets, and that is if, in fact, we have another Jimmy Carter grain embargo. Jimmy --Jimmy Carter grain embargo -- Jimmy Carter grain embargo set the American farmer back. You know what the farmer is interested in? Net farm income. Every 1 percent of increase in interest rates -- a billion dollars out of the farmer's pocket. Net farm income -- increase inflation another billion dollars. Another thing that a farmer's not interested in and that's supply management the Democratic platform talks about. But, the governor of Massachusetts, he had the farm program. He went to the farmers in the Midwest, and told them not to grow corn, not to grow soy beans, but to grow Belgium endive. That's what his -- that's what he and his Harvard buddies think of the American farmer. Grow Belgium endive. To come in and to tell our farmers not to grow corn, not to grow soy beans, that's the kind of farm policy you'll get under a Dukakis administration, and one I think the American farmer rightfully will reject.
AP881028-0106 	X	Republican George Bush said today Americans should think about the words peace and prosperity as they vote for president Nov. 8 and ask themselves whether ``dark clouds of pessimism'' would be cast if Democrat Michael Dukakis wins the White House. ``Now that we have peace and prosperity, we can't afford to put them at risk,'' Bush told a group of business leaders. Comfortably ahead of Dukakis in the polls nationwide, Bush is locked in a pitched battle in California for the big prize of 47 electoral votes. He told the businessmen that the Reagan-Bush administration has dramatically cut interest rates and inflation and he recited a long list of economic statistics to show that Americans are better off now than they were eight years ago. In his remarks, Bush seemed to shelve his promise of a night earlier that ``we're not going to be talking on the negative side'' in the closing days of the race. The vice president said Dukakis ``wants to torpedo the prosperity we've worked so hard to achieve.'' Bush said that when American go into the voting booth he hoped they remember the words peace and prosperity: ``peace means you can sleep at night knowing the world will still be there in the morning; prosperity means you can sleep at night knowing that opportunity will still be there in the morning. ``You know about our mornings,'' Bush said. ``But I ask you to consider: What kind of morning would electing the liberal governor of Massachusetts bring? Will it be gloomy? ``Will the dark clouds of pessimism and limited possibility obscure our vision?'' Bush asked. ``Will we be able to hope for a brighter day?'' Saying that the nation cannot afford to put peace and prosperity at risk, Bush added, ``The stakes for the cause of freedom around the world are too high.'' Addressing a crowd of celebrities Thursday night at the home of entertainer Bob Hope, Bush said, ``I'm sorry Clint Eastwood isn't here. Remember how he'd say, `Make my day.' Now my opponent says, `Have a nice vacation' as the prisoners come out of the jail.'' The audience laughed and applauded. Some of the best-known stars of an earlier generation were on hand, including Gene Autry, Buddy Ebsen, Robert Mitchum, Jane Russell, Danny Thomas, Esther Williams and others, along with younger celebrities such as Jaclyn Smith. Bush was campaigning today in Los Angeles and Sacramento and then stopping im Omaha, Neb., for a rally before a flight to Chicago. On Saturday, Bush will take a bus tour around the outskirts of Chicago. Bush is being attacked by Dukakis, as well as by other critics, for running a negative campaign _ a charge that now is being leveled at Dukakis. ``We're coming down to the wire, Tuesday, 12 days from today,'' the vice president said Thursday night. ``Things have come along well. We are not letting up. ``We're not going to be talking on the negative side anymore,'' he added, immediately launching into his criticism of Dukakis and the furlough program for Massachusetts prison inmates. Bush concluded by saying, ``Now it's going to be a kinder and quieter finish to this campaign.'' Earlier in the day, Bush also voiced some reservations about the way the campaign had been waged. In a white, circus-sized tent at Applied Materials Co., in California's Silicon Valley, Bush said that ``some of the modern campaigning with TV and spinning and sound bites might have gotten out of hand.'' Spinning is the term applied to efforts by campaign lieutenants to shape the perception of their candidate's performance. Sound bites are the 15 to 30-second snatches of a speech that wind up in a television or radio broadcast. Bush, in his Santa Clara speech, accused Dukakis of ``trying to scare the American people by putting Japanese flags'' in his television commercials, and said the right way to gain world markets for U.S. exports is by opening them, not shrinking from competition. He said Dukakis should explain ``why his thinly veiled comments about foreign investment only mention Japan,'' which he said ranks only third as a source of foreign investment in the United States. Footage of the Japanese flag appears in a Dukakis ad challenging Bush's record as head of a commission that examined U.S.-Japanese trade relations. The ad is running in Ohio. Bush said he would promote U.S. trade, but not with protectionist measures. ``It doesn't make sense to stick our heads in the sand, as some in the other party have suggested, and try to build walls around America,'' the vice president said. ``It doesn't make sense to launch a trade war and plunge America and the world into a recession. ``And it is beneath the dignity of the presidency, and of the voters, to try to incite fear of foreigners as a cheap means of winning a few votes,'' Bush said. Later, at the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles, Bush toured a Holocaust museum with his wife, Barbara, and then told a courtyard audience, ``We have no room in our communities for hidden Nazi fugitives or war criminals. Every last one of them must be found and brought to justice.''
AP880801-0074 	X	The Republican war for Virginia's gubernatorial nomination has heated up with U.S. Sen. Paul S. Trible Jr.'s announcement of his candidacy, with opponents attacking his fund-raising, reasons and timing. U.S. Rep. Stan Parris, an announced candidate for the nomination, charged Saturday that Trible's fund-raising for next year's election is taking money away from this year's GOP candidates for the U.S. House, Senate and presidency. ``There is only a finite amount of money you can look for in any one year,'' Parris said Saturday after Trible supporters announced they already had raised $527,400 in cash and pledges for his campaign. Parris said he would not raise money for his campaign until after the November elections. Former state Attorney General Marshall Coleman is an all-but-declared candidate. Democrats are expected to nominate Lt. Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, the state's highest elected black official. Trible, who announced his candidacy Saturday, had announced last year that he would not seek a second term in the Senate because it took him away from his family too much, and because he was frustrated with the slow pace of the Senate. Coleman said Trible should not look upon the governor's job simply as better working conditions. ``My interest in the governorship is not in better working conditions. What is needed is to change the course of the state. What the Republicans in Virginia are going to want to know is what a candidate for governor is going to do to make the state better. I don't look at the governorship as a seat to warm,'' Coleman said. Parris and Coleman have charged that Trible is giving up his Senate seat to avoid a tough campaign against former Gov. Charles S. Robb, the Democratic nominee for the Senate. The GOP nominee, Maurice Dawkins, is given little chance of beating Robb. Mark Rozell, a political scientist from Mary Washington College, said Trible faces problems with the party's conservative wing, which is unhappy with his performance on the Senate committee investigating the Iran-Contra affair. They charge that Trible, who criticized the administration's handling of the matter, unfairly attacked President Reagan.
AP881222-0045 	X	A gene found to be key to schizophrenia medication will trigger ``an avalanche of research'' that could improve treatment for psychosis, Parkinson's disease and other brain ailments, a scientist says. Scientists worldwide ``have really been poised to take advantage of this development,'' which could provide insights into the body's potential role in mental illness, said Kenneth L. Davis, chairman of the psychiatry department at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. The results could include improved treatments for diseases that include psychosis, which is a loss of touch with reality seen in schizophrenia and sometimes in depression, manic-depression and other disorders, he said. It also could lead to better treatment of Parkinson's disease, which is often characterized by tremors and rigidity, Huntington's disease, which hinders movement and intellectual abilities, and Tourette syndrome, which includes jerky movements and vocal mannerisms, Davis and other researchers said. Davis was responding to a report in today's issue of the British journal Nature. In the article, researchers said they had isolated the gene that acts as a blueprint for a protein called the D-2 dopamine receptor, which is made by brain cells. The receptor, which sits on the surface of the cells, is where anti-psychosis drugs exert their effects on the brain. Normally, the receptor's role is to respond when adjacent brain cells secrete a substance called dopamine, allowing brain cells to communicate. The defining of one receptor in the past has led to discovery of a related family of them, Davis said. If a family of dopamine receptors is found, scientists may be able to design drugs that affect only the receptors linked to disease and avoid side effects of current medications, he said. Side effects of current anti-psychosis medications, for example, include tardive dyskinesia, a syndrome of involuntary movements of the mouth, tongue, limbs or trunk. In the study, researchers said they identified the receptor gene in rats, defined its chemical makeup and made functioning copies of it. Since then, they also have isolated and partially defined the human receptor gene, Olivier Civelli said in a telephone interview. The researcher reports the work in Nature with James Bunzow and others at the Oregon Health Sciences University in Portland, and with researchers at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Portland and the Oregon Regional Primate Center in Beaverton. Other scientists called the discovery an important boost for research into the dopamine receptor. Davis predicted ``an avalanche of research'' by investigators. ``We've all been waiting for it,'' he said. ``This is an important and essentially fundamental step'' in helping scientists understand how anti-psychotic drugs work, ``and thereby indirectly understand what may be the biological mechanism underlying psychotic disorders.'' Scientists also may be able to learn about the mechanisms that turn the receptor gene on and off, which may shed light on schizophrenia, he said. In addition, focusing on the receptor gene may help scientists study the inheritance of a tendency toward schizophrenia and perhaps other diseases, said Arnold Friedhoff, psychiatry professor at the New York University Medical Center. That in turn could lead to better matching of patients to proper medications, he said. He said other follow-up studies could help scientists understand the overall dopamine communication network among brain cells, which is ``undoubtedly going to provide extremely important new insights into its role ... in regulating mental processes.'' Since it is the target of drugs that ease psychosis caused by a wide range of conditions, it ``must have a regulatory role in keeping things on track,'' he said. ``The more we understand about its function, the more likely it is we'll be able to not only treat mental illness, but in the long run prevent it,'' Friedhoff said.
AP880816-0002 	X	The big summer heat wave rolled on Tuesday with temperatures boiling past 100 to record highs from the eastern Plains to the Ohio Valley, but the steamy Northeast finally got a break with a surge of cooler, drier air from Canada. Utilities posted more records for demand for electricity as air conditioners and fans were turned on full blast. Some school districts in Illinois plan to open schools early and reduce class periods by almost half when school opens next week to avoid the hottest part of the day. ``By noon during summer school, it was very uncomfortable. If it was 90 outside, it was 95 to 100 in the classrooms. That's not a good atmosphere for learning,'' said associate principal Don Tokarski of Rantoul Township (Ill.) High School. ``I think this will be the hottest weather of the summer, taking both temperature and humidity into account,'' said Norm Reitmeyer, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Louisville, Ky. ``We've had an oppressively hot and humid summer without a doubt,'' Reitmeyer said. ``But particular days such as this or tomorrow are rare.'' The temperature at Paducah, Ky., reached 102 degrees and Reitmeyer said that and the humidity would push the heat index, a measure of how hot it feels, the opposite of winter's wind chill factor, to 115. He said that is near life-threatening for some people. Kentucky has had a total of 48 days of above-90 degrees this summer. Milwaukee reached a record high of 100 degrees, and that made it a record five times the city has hit 100 or higher this year. The old record was four times in 1936. Some other records included 90 at Duluth, Minn.; 104 at Fargo, N.D.; 103 at Fort Dodge, Iowa; 103 at Huron, S.D.; 102 at Indianapolis; 102 at Madison, Wis.; 101 at Peoria, Ill., and Sioux Falls, S.D.; and 102 at Springfield, Ill., the National Weather Service said. The 103 degrees at Rockford, Ill., was the hottest reading since July 27, 1955. La Crosse, Wis., marked the 44th day that the temperature achieved the 90 degree mark, another record. The 102-degree heat wilted about 10,000 competitors wearing heavy uniforms and carrying musical instruments at the Drum Corps International World Championships on the artificial turf at Arrowhead Stadium in Kansas City, Mo. ``You can feel it right through your tennis shoes,'' said Donald MacDougall, a member of the Edmonton Strutters of Canada. ``One of our melophone players almost passed out.'' The 136th Indiana State Fair opened Tuesday with livestock exhibitors taking extra precautions, like putting ice in front of large fans to keep animals cool. Four chickens that were to be entered died when their owners left them in cars with the windows rolled up, fair officials said. The official high in the 48 contiguous states at 3 p.m. EDT was 105 degrees, not in Texas, Arizona or southern California but at Chamberlin, S.D. But nature's own air-conditioning _ in the form of a cool front from Canada _ settled over the Northeast. Unfortunately, forecasts said the heat would soon return. After 32 days of 90-degree temperatures and swamp-like humidity, including a high of 97 Monday, New York City had a high Tuesday of merely 86 degrees. And the humidity was only around 39 to 42 percent, making it feel almost like early autumn compared to preceding weeks. ``The downturn in temperatures is certainly going to help not only Con Ed but all New York utilities,'' said Bill Murphy, spokesman for the utility that supplies New York City's power. Con Edison had a record demand Monday of 10,160 megawatts of electricity. The failure of several feeder cables on Staten Island knocked out service to more than 13,000 customers. And earlier Monday, the utility cut off power to 16 large apartment buildings on Manhattan's Upper East Side to prevent a wider blackout after several feeder cables failed, blacking out some 10,000 residents. The cooler air also brought relief for utilities in Pennsylvania, where Philadelphia Electric Co. was forced to impose a 5 percent voltage reduction Monday. But the clash of the hot and cool air also touched off thunderstorms, which knocked out power to thousands of customers across the state Monday. Farther south, utilities across Kentucky reported record electrical demand Monday and expected to exceed those amounts Tuesday, but no problems were reported. ``We've been going wild this summer,'' said Dick Lovegrove, a spokesman for Ashland-based Kentucky Power, which had records for power use almost every day during the past week. Louisville Gas & Electric has set all-time peaks 13 times this summer, said spokesman Calvin Anderson. The Tennessee Valley Authority, the big federal utility, hit another record peak summer demand Tuesday of 21,304 megawatts. A record Monday of 20,618 megawatts forced the utility to buy about 2,500 megawatts from neighboring utilities, said Robert C. Steffy Jr., senior vice president of power for TVA. TVA's all-time power peak was in the winter of 1983 at 22,478 megawatts.
AP900512-0087 	X	Pope John Paul II, sure of his direction, strong in his faith, has thrust the church into moral and political controversy in countries as diverse as the United States and Nicaragua. He could do no different on his eight-day tour of Mexico, Roman Catholicism's largest Spanish-speaking nation. For starters, the visit outlined in flashing neon one of Mexico's most delicious contradictions _ a country 90 percent Catholic, a constitution that forbids the church to own property, educate children or peep about politics. The pope violated the constitution just by appearing in public in clerical garb, not to mention saying Mass for 500,000 people dressed in a golden chasuble on national television. The church was quick to say the vast crowds served as a virtual plebiscite on the binding element, the notorious article 130. ``Only Albania has a constitution like that,'' said Javier Navarro, in charge of the Vatican office for Latin America and Spain. But the dance between church and state in Mexico is more complicated than the lambada. The church bet on conservatives in the Mexican Revolution of 1910; when liberals won, they took revenge on their reactionary foe. Although its public role was circumscribed, the church retained much of its strength. The motto of the papal visit is: ``Mexico _ Always Faithful.'' Breaches of the constitution have been winked at for decades. Politicians send their children to Catholic-run schools, even universities, because they are better than public schools. ``The pope's visit proves that the problem with article 130 of the constitution is not how to change it, but how impossible it is to enforce,'' columnist Gaston Garcia Cantu wrote in Excelsior, an influential newspaper. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has been winking hard. He took office on Dec. 1, 1988, with the weakest mandate an Institutional Revolutionary Party president ever had. His party was accused of fraud. There was violence in the streets on Inauguration Day. But Salinas surprised his opponents by locating a new constituency. He invited Roman Catholic prelates to his inauguration and hinted that the relationship between church and state should be brought in line with reality. He sent a personal envoy to the Vatican, establishing diplomatic relations of a kind for the first time since 1926. Salinas greeted John Paul when he arrived and had the pope to morning coffee. The president's office provided security and press arrangements for the visit, including an extra plane. The church, sniffing the carrot of increased recognition, has been grateful. ``I pray every day for President Salinas,'' said Monsignor Genaro Alamilla, spokesman for the Mexican church. Salinas' opponents know it doesn't pay to attack the pope, and the government has ruled out real constitutional change. So they pick around the edges: the pope is talking politics, they say. The government of a poor nation is spending too much on showtime for the pope. ``We welcome this distinguished visitor, the spiritual guide to millions of Mexicans,'' said Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, runner-up to Salinas in 1988. ``But the government made it into politics.'' But if the pope allowed himself to be used politically, he got plenty back. Again and again he addressed controversial issues, always pleading the church's cause. He demanded the freedom to provide education to the faithful _ a role that would expand greatly if it were free of restrictions. He attacked contraception in a country with a rising population of 85 million that suffers all the Third World problems of poverty and malnutrition and where family planning is government policy. He attacked materialism and greed before Mexico's richest businessmen, but in Monterrey found himself giving a homily flanked by enormous Carta Blanca beer signs. He linked capitalist culture with contraception and abortion, saying material lust makes people want to limit their families. He visited the Indian communities of southeastern Mexico in an effort to fend off Protestant evangelicals who are learning the native languages and converting the poor, the homeless and those who lost their native culture to encroaching ``progress.'' ``I think his visit could help revitalize the faith here,'' said Benjamin Cruz, a 51-year-old psychiatrist among a throng of 200,000 at Villahermosa. ``Catholics here are disoriented. It's sad to see.'' It was almost forgotten amid the political wavelets, but to most in the crowd, the pope's role was to focus shared faith. Hundreds of thousands gathered to sing, to listen, to catch a glimpse. When he leaped off an isolated podium and charged through a fence to mix with murderers and drug traffickers in a prison yard, a prison chorus broke into Beethoven's ``Ode to Joy.'' Municipal officials engaged in a game of one-upmanship over who gave the best reception. Some Mexico City authorities claimed a questionable 8 million to 10 million people lined the nine-mile parade to the Basilica of Guadalupe; there were more like 250,000. In Aguascalientes, the city fathers were told the pope would stop at the airport but wouldn't come into town. So they built giant replicas of their finest buildings on the tarmac. They claimed a crowd of 700,000; more mathematical minds calculated 50,000, tops. But whatever the crowd, the pope gave something back. In a thousand ways, John Paul provided an experience people will recount for years. In Tuxtla Gutierrez, he sparkled with jokes about his trouble pronouncing Indian languages. In Durango, squads of bicyclists chased a waving, bemused figure in the popemobile for miles. In Mexico City, 1,500 people outside his bedroom fell suddenly silent when he told them he loved their singing but wanted to sleep. ``For us it is the ultimate to come here,'' said Aurora Hinojosa Casillas, who rode 225 miles by bus from Ciudad Juarez to Chihuahua. ``Since I was born, I've been a Catholic and it's important. He is closer to God.''
AP880311-0100 	X	The government kicked off the Wedtech racketeering trial today by accusing Rep. Mario Biaggi and his six co-defendants of theft from the defunct Bronx defense contractor. ``This is a case about corruption and greed,'' Howard Wilson, an assistant U.S. attorney, told the 12-person jury in U.S. District Court. ``It is a case about public officials who want to get paid twice.'' Wilson pointed to Biaggi and former Bronx Borough President Stanley Simon at the defense table and said they and the others stole from Wedtech. Some had been promised more money, he said. At the trial's opening, Judge Constance Baker Motley told the jury: ``An indictment is simply a series of charges. ... A defendant on trial is presumed innocent and this presumption of innocence is presumed throughout the trial.'' The case involving the defense contractor includes charges that the seven defendants looted millions of dollars in cash and stocks from the company. The trial is expected to last several months. In addition to Biaggi, 70, and Simon, 57, the defendants are: Bernard G. Ehrlich, 59, Biaggi's former law partner and a former major general in the New York National Guard; Biaggi's eldest son, Richard, 38; Peter Neglia, 39, the former regional administrator of the Small Business Administration; former Wedtech chairman John Mariotta, 57; and Ronald Betso, 39, a former city police officer and close friend of Neglia's. They are charged with racketeering and conspiracy, which each carry maximum 20-year penalties upon conviction, as well as various other alleged crimes. Biaggi is also accused of extortion, bribe-receiving, wire fraud, perjury and filing false tax returns.
AP880303-0280 	X	A coach from communist Romania's Olympic team met with immigration officers at a secret location Wednesday after appealing for asylum in Canada, an Immigration Department spokesman said. ``He's in a secluded place, a safe place with security,'' spokesman Gerry Maffre said in Ottawa. The coach was not identified, but Olympic sources and Canadian news media said he was Dumitru Focseneanu, the Romanian bobsled coach whose team had 27th and 30th place finishes at the Winter Olympic Games in Calgary last week. ``We're trying to find out what he really wants to do,'' Maffre said. The bobsled coach reportedly refused to board a bus taking the 22-member Romanian team to Calgary airport Monday night and sought refugee status. The federal Immigration Department was handling the case. The Soviet Union filed an angry protest over an immigration hotline set up in Calgary to handle emergencies and possible defection cases. The Romanian was the only known defector among more than 1,800 Olympic athletes and 1,000 coaches and officials from 57 countries. But three Romanian speed skaters and their coach left Calgary abruptly the day before the Games began amid speculation the athletes planned to defect. City Police Superintendent Len Esler said the defector approached two police officers at the athletes' village at the University of Calgary about 9:30 p.m. Monday and ``requested political asylum.'' Esler said the man was taken to a police station where immigration officers picked him up. He refused to give the man's name ``for his safety and the safety of his family.'' Focseneanu was in Calgary last December during a bobsled World Cup competition. The Romanian Embassy in Ottawa refused to comment. Wilf Lindner, manager of the Calgary immigration center, said the man would be allowed to stay only after a medical examination, a security check into his background and an Immigration Department hearing. ``All decisions are made on a case-to-case basis,'' he said.
AP901028-0039 	X	BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) Hundreds of mice, rats and hamsters used for research were released from their cages at the state University of New York at Buffalo Medical School, but no animal rights group claimed responsibility. The animals were found scampering around five rooms Saturday morning by a technician arriving for work, said school spokeswoman Linda Grace-Kobas. ``They opened the cages, and the mice and the rats (and hamsters) got out of the cages, but they did not escape from the rooms,'' she said. There were no signs of a break-in or indication why the animals were released. ``Usually animal rights people leave a message,'' she said. ``There were no notes. No `Save the Animals.' This was strange. It seemed random. It seemed pointless.'' University officials were trying to determine what effect the animals' release will have on research projects in which they were used, she said. ``By letting them out, it disrupts the experiments,'' she said, adding that some of the experiments are based on the animals being in a closed enviroment. Also, since not all the animals were tagged, researchers may not be able to determine which animals belonged to what experiments.
AP880418-0040 	X	U.S. officials remain skeptical of Soviet explanations for a mysterious anthrax outbreak in 1979 despite a recent public relations blitz by the Soviet government. The Carter administration demanded a full accounting from the Soviets in 1980, saying it had ``disturbing indications'' that the epidemic was caused by ``some sort of lethal biological agent.'' But according to a lecture and slide show presented by Soviet health officials over the last week in Washington, Baltimore and Cambridge, Mass., the outbreak stemmed from a batch of contaminated bone meal fed to livestock, whose meat, in turn, caused the deaths of 66 people in Sverdlovsk, a city of 1.2 million in the Ural Mountains. The long-awaited Soviet explanation ``leaves many questions unanswered,'' said Gary B. Crocker, a State Department analyst specializing in questions relating to Soviet military use of biological and chemical weapons. ``It does not fit with the evidence and facts we have collected on the issue,'' he said. In 1986, the Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency released a report alleging that the anthrax came from the Microbiology and Virology Institute, a top-secret military research facility in Sverdlovsk. The Pentagon report said ``a pressurized system probably exploded'' at the institute, spewing as much as 22 pounds of anthrax spores into the air, and that ``hundreds'' of Soviet citizens died. Anthrax, an infectious disease which occurs naturally, is considered a deadly candidate for use in biological weapons. A 1975 treaty signed by both superpowers bars possession of biological weapons and significant quantities of biological agents, but allows research ostensibly aimed at biowarfare defenses. James Oberg, author of the recent book ``Uncovering Soviet Disasters,'' said he believes the Soviet health officials ``are telling the truth'' in blaming the outbreak on a batch of contaminated meat rather than germ-warfare experiments. ``But they are not telling the whole truth,'' said Oberg. ``They should have said this eight or nine years ago,'' said Oberg, who urged the Soviets to open the Sverdlovsk research facility to Western observers. ``The damage has been done,'' he said. ``It will take a lot more of this kind of disclosure to undo the damage that Soviet paranoid secrecy has inflicted on international relations.'' The Soviets had long denied the U.S. allegations, but had offered little evidence to refute them. The more detailed rebuttal last week came from Dr. Pyotr N. Burgasov, former deputy Soviet health minister, Dr. Vladimir N. Nikiforov, chief infectious disease specialist at the Moscow Institute for the Advanced Training of Physicians, and Dr. Vladimir P. Sergiyev, of the Soviet health ministry. The heart of their argument, bolstered by gory autopsy slides, was that the victims suffered severe damage to their intestines, indicating they ate rather than inhaled the anthrax. The DIA report had said ``hundreds of Soviet citizens died from inhalation of anthrax,'' and that others suffered after eating the meat of animals who had inhaled the deadly spores. The Soviet officials declined to answer questions about the work performed at the Sverdlovsk research lab. But, in circumstantial refutation of the U.S. allegations, they said no one at the lab became ill during the outbreak.
AP900630-0012 	X	Marion Barry's lawyer is portraying Rasheeda Moore as a vengeful ex-lover who trapped the mayor in an FBI sting operation because he had abandoned her for another woman. Moore, a former model, denied the suggestion Friday at the mayor's cocaine and perjury trial, insisting, ``I was not out to get Mr. Barry.'' But she acknowledged that she had repeatedly steered the conversation around to drugs during the secretly videotaped encounter with Barry in a Washington hotel room last Jan. 18. She conceded that Barry was primarily interested that evening in having sex with her. In her second day of cross-examination by Barry's chief lawyer, R. Kenneth Mundy, Moore also acknowledged that she broke the FBI's instructions and tried to persuade the mayor to use drugs. Midway through the FBI videotape in which Barry ultimately smoked crack cocaine, Moore asked the mayor if he wants to use drugs. ``No, not tonight,'' Barry replied in the tape, which was played in court Thursday. ``You felt you were going beyond your mandate not to persuade, influence, coerce or beguile'' Barry into using drugs, Mundy asked Moore. ``I did,'' she replied. ``Why did you do that?'' the lawyer asked. ``Just in the gist of the evening,'' said Moore, who said she got ``overcarried'' in performing her duties for the FBI. ``In your zeal to get Mr. Barry,'' Mundy said accusingly. ``For all you knew, he had been off drugs since May'' 1989 when Moore moved to California. ``Not in my zeal,'' the witness insisted. ``I was not out to get Mr. Barry.'' ``What was your intent?'' Mundy asked Moore. ``Working this operation'' with the FBI, she replied. The defense lawyer suggested that Moore had been badly treated by the mayor and motivated by revenge. ``Were you mad at Mr. Barry because he didn't return your calls'' throughout an eight-month span in 1989, Mundy asked. ``No, I wasn't,'' Moore replied. She also denied that she was angry because the married mayor was involved with another woman, Maria McCarthy, or because he had slapped her when they broke up their romantic relationship. Had Moore been scorned? a reporter asked Mundy after the day's court session. ``A woman scorned,'' Mundy agreed immediately. ``Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.'' McCarthy was jailed for refusing to testify before a federal grand jury looking into the mayor's alleged drug use. She later relented and is now listed as a possible witness at Barry's trial. Barry is charged with 10 misdemeanor counts of cocaine possession charges, one misdemeanor cocaine conspiracy count and three felony counts of lying to a grand jury about drug use. One of the possession charges stems from his arrest in the sting operation. Meanwhile Friday, U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson, presiding in the Barry case, barred black activist clergyman George Augustus Stallings, a Barry supporter, from attending the trial. Stallings, a former Roman Catholic priest, broke with the Vatican by starting his own African-American church. Mundy and the American Civil Liberties Union said they were asking the U.S. Court of Appeals to overturn Jackson's decision regarding Stallings as well as his order Thursday barring Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan. Jackson said Stallings' and Farrakhan's presence in the courtroom would be potentially disruptive. Barry told reporters he could ``not understand why any citizen'' who wanted to use one of the four courtroom passes provided to the defense cannot do so. ``So I think that we are in a totalitarian situation where Bishop Stallings or Minister Farrakhan (cannot attend.),'' Barry said. ``It's like in Nazi Germany.''
AP881018-0232 	X	The stock market has gotten a modest boost from new government reports pointing to an economic slowdown. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 7.29 points Monday to 2,140.47. The Commerce Department reported that goods held on shelves and backlots in August rose 0.8 percent to $733.7 billion, following a 0.7 percent gain in July. It was the 20th consecutive monthly increase. Rising inventories can be a sign of economic sluggishness as manufacturers order production cuts and layoffs while goods in reserve are sold off. In another government report, the Federal Reserve Board said the overall operating rate last month at U.S. factories, mines and utilities fell to 83.6 percent of capacity, down 0.2 percentage point from August. The strain on the nation's industrial capacity eased for the first time in seven months as utilities scaled back after the summer heat wave, the Fed said. The latest government reports also supported bond prices, driving interest rates lower. The yield on the Treasury's closely watched 30-year bond fell to 8.86 percent from 8.90 percent late Friday. In foreign-exchange trading, the dollar rose against most major currencies after reports of intervention by the Bank of Japan lifted it from its lows of the day. The U.S. currency finished in New York at around 127.07 Japanese yen, up from 126.70 yen late Friday. As part of its business inventories report, the Commerce Department said August sales totaled $487.7 billion, up a brisk 1.1 percent from July, when the gain was a slight 0.1 percent. It was the ninth increase in a row. In other economic developments Monday: _A Harvard Business Review report concluded that an entrenched budget deficit and fundamental policy flaws have destabilized the nation's economy, and the next president will have to take major steps to turn it around. _The oil ministers of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council said they supported an increase in OPEC's output quotas as a way to try to stabilize prices. Analysts said stock traders took a generally upbeat view of the current state of the economy, believing that growth has slowed of late to a steady, sustainable pace. But inflation worries haven't been entirely snuffed out on Wall Street, and brokers said investors were looking ahead warily to Friday's scheduled report on the consumer price index for September. Furthermore, just about all market-watchers agree, investors are likely to be leery of stocks all week with the anniversary Wednesday of last fall's crash, and all the attendant publicity.
AP881012-0073 	X	The 10th tropical storm of the Atlantic hurricane season gradually strengthened as it followed a course that could threaten the Lesser Antilles in two or three days. At 6 a.m. EDT today, Tropical Storm Joan was centered near 12.2 north latitude and 50.8 west longitude, or about 575 miles east of Barbados, moving west-northwest at 15 mph, the National Hurricane Center said. The system has maximum sustained winds of 50 mph with some stronger gusts, according to the center. Little change in strength was expected today, and Joan was expected to maintain the same speed and direction for the next 24 hours, the center said. Joan, first spotted by satellite late last week in the mid-Atlantic, was upgraded from a depression to a tropical storm Tuesday. Tropical storms are named when sustained winds reach 39 mph and hurricanes when winds hit 74 mph. Four hurricanes have formed this season, including Hurricane Gilbert, which killed more than 300 people and caused billions of dollars damage as it ravaged Jamaica, the Cayman Islands and Mexico. The hurricane season runs from June to November.
AP900418-0246 	X	The stock market posted a broad loss today, registering little enthusiasm over the latest news on the nation's international trade balance. The Commerce Department reported that the U.S. trade deficit in February shrank to its narrowest reading in more than six years. Imports exceeded exports by $6.49 billion, down from $9.32 billion in January. Analysts said that held out the prospect of stronger-than-expected growth in economic output, and improved profits at many companies with a substantial international business. At the same time, however, the figures touched off fresh worries about the outlook for interest rates. In the credit markets prices of long-term government bonds fell more than $10 for each $1,000 in face value, increasing their yields to the 8.84 percent-8.90 percent range.
AP880906-0106 	X	Testimony about a near-drowning last year involving a Navy swimming instructor will be allowed in the instructor's court-martial for his role in the death of a recruit in March, a judge ruled Tuesday. Petty Officer 2nd Class Michael Combe, 28, of Tempe, Ariz., is charged with involuntary manslaughter, battery and conspiracy to commit battery in the March 2 drowing of Airman Recruit Lee Mirecki, 19, of Appleton, Wis. Combe is accused of holding Mirecki's head under water after Pensacola Naval Air Station instructors forced the panic-stricken recruit back into a swimming pool when he climbed out and shouted he wanted to quit the voluntary training. Opening arguments in the court-martial were scheduled to begin later Tuesday. In pre-trial motions, the military judge, Cmdr. Newell D. Krogmann, rejected a defense motion to bar testimony and prohibit the introduction of an accident report about the Sept. 30 near-drowning of Christopher Coccitti, a Navy reservist from Jacksonville. Coccitti testified last week in the court-martial of the former officer in charge of the swimming school that he blacked out under water while Combe had him in a head hold. Coccitti had been participating in the ``sharks and daisies'' drill, the same exercise being conducted when Mirecki died. An attorney for Combe, Robert Heath Jr., argued that Coccitti's testimony was irrelevant because the earlier emergency was unrelated to Mirecki's death. The lead prosecutor, Lt. Cmdr. Larry Wynne, contended the information is pertinent because it showed Combe had a ``cavalier attitude'' toward students who passed out in the swimming pool. It was an occurrence known as ``smurfing'' because the skin of victims would turn blue like that of ``Smurf'' cartoon characters, former students have said. Mirecki, who had a phobia about being dragged under water, drowned after suffering a fear-induced heart attack, a pathologist testified last week in the court-martial of Lt. Thomas A. Torchia, former officer in charge of the Navy Rescue Swimmer School. Torchia, 32, of Princeton, Ill., was acquitted Thursday on both of two dereliction-of-duty charges. He is not scheduled to testify in Combe's court-martial, but four other instructors who received non-judicial punishment are listed as defense witnesses. The prosecution granted them immunity after defense lawyers said their testimony was vital to Combe's case.
AP900219-0100 	X	Question: How many Board of Education bureaucrats does it take to change a light bulb? Answer: Fill this out in triplicate and check back in a month. That's the level of absurdity facing new schools Chancellor Joseph Fernandez as he delves into bureaucracy and red tape at the New York education headquarters. According to the Daily News, hundreds of teachers received a memo last year titled, ``Proper Handwashing.'' In seven easy steps, the teachers were reminded that ``running water is necessary to carry away dirt and debris,'' advised to use ``a circular motion and friction, for 15 to 30 seconds,'' and told to ``discard paper towels in receptacle.'' Fernandez, faced with a system of 950,000 students, 1,000 buildings and a backlog of 33,000 repair requests, asked departments what their urgent needs were. The director of the Office of Professional Development and Leadership Training said her top priority was a ``Concretizing Mission.'' A what? ``Capacity building of personnel resources,'' the director wrote, ``and personal abilities of central board of education, districts and school (sic) to facilitate generating vehicles to assist schools in nurturing student achievement ...'' Oh. The official, who was not identified in the News story, showed off her abilities as an empire builder when she proposed the creation of a Coalition of Professional Developers to provide help to the schools. The coalition, she said, would be assisted by District Support Teams. Eventually, the school board could create an Academy of Learning, Teaching, Supervising and Management that would consist of four institutes, including an Institute for Intellectual and Creative Development. The bottom line: a modest $2 million would pay for the entire lot _ the CPD, the DSTs, the ALTSM and the IICD, as they might eventually be known. Another priceless piece of paperwork came from Public School 140 in the Bronx, whose principal decided to ease congestion in the school office. Her solution: ``Request Form for Permission to Come Behind the Counter in the Main Office.'' That form was discontinued last year after being ridiculed by the teachers union.
AP880827-0040 	X	Carlos Batalla Cordero believes in ticket scalping _ believes in it so strongly that he's founded a union and gone on a hunger strike to promote honest, legal scalping. Batalla Cordero has been keeping a vigil at the doors of the Metropolitan Cathedral here since Tuesday without eating. He has asked for a meeting with President Miguel de la Madrid to press his case for legalization. Ticket scalping is illegal, but it is much more common here than in the United States. At almost any popular movie, scalpers called ``resellers'' buy tickets and sell them for a premium to latecomers or to those who don't want to stand in line at the box office. Batalla Cordero, looking thin and unshaven during a Friday interview, said he thought legalization might reduce some abuses. ``There are three people in Mexico City who have about 70 people working for them who resell tickets for as much as 1,000 percent more than they paid,'' said Batalla Cordero. He said they will sometimes try to buy up all the tickets to an event to push up the resale price. ``They mistreat and cheat their customers,'' said Batalla Cordero. He said he believes scalpers should be limited to a 20 percent premium on the face value of the ticket. Nowadays, a ticket to a popular play can cost $19 and be resold for as much as $86. Batalla has founded a union that claims about 80 members. The union, called the Authentic Union of Independent Ticket Resellers in the Service of the Public for Theater, Cinema and Spectacles, has an office in Mexico City. ``The authorities have told me they won't answer my request for an interview with the president until Monday,'' said Batalla Cordero. Scalping was legalized in Mexico in 1952 but was outlawed again in 1961. Telephone calls to the press offices at the National Palace on Friday afternoon were not answered. Police at the cathedral said they had not seen Batalla Cordero eat anything, although he has been taking liquids.
AP880512-0032 	X	A South Carolina legislator had a suggestion to end discussion on bills designating ``official'' state animals, vegetables and minerals: Designate an official everything. ``We ought ... to have everyone fill out the darn list with everything they can think of and we would never have this come before us again,'' said Rep. Woody Aydlette. ``We could have a state cat, a state snake, even a state disease. After that, we would be finished with it. Why do them one at a time? Just go ahead and get them on a list and let's go.'' The reaction of fellow House members to Aydlette's proposal was less than enthusiastic. They ignored it. The Republican lawmaker was trying to block a bill to make the loggerhead sea turtle the state reptile, but the measure raced through the House anyway Wednesday. The Senate recently approved the bill, along with a measure to make the praying mantis South Carolina's state insect. The state already has a state fish, deer, bird, wild game bird and dog, not the mention a state flower, tree, flag, stone, shell, fruit, beverage, stone, two state songs and a dance. Aydlette says its a waste of time and money to pass legislation adding state symbols. But, he said, ``it's beginning to take up too much time to even fight the thing now.''
AP900522-0144 	X	Parliament's Finance Committee said Tuesday it approved spending $20.5 million to improve Jewish settlements in the occupied territories at the request of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. The decision came Monday after a plea from Shamir, who asked the committee in a letter to allocate the funds to the Housing Ministry. A copy of Shamir's letter was obtained by The Associated Press. Shamir asked that the money be used to develop settlements and roads beyond the Green Line, which divides Israel from the territories it captured in the 1967 Middle East War. A Shamir spokesman insisted the money would be used only to improve existing settlements, not build new ones. Two new settlements established by Shamir's caretaker government have sparked protests from the United States, which says settlements in the occupied areas are an obstacle to peacemaking. Shulamit Aloni, a Finance Committee member and left-wing legislator, condemned the decision to allocate the money. ``This decision was passed by a completely insane system at a time of political unrest,'' Aloni said. He said it could hurt U.S. aid to Israel and endanger Soviet Jewish emigration. Thousands of Soviet Jews are expected to immigrate to Israel this year, and there is concern in the Soviet Union and among Arab countries that some could settle in the occupied lands. Israel denies it has a policy of steering immigrants to the occupied territories. A report by an Israeli diplomat in Washington released Tuesday in the daily Haaretz supported Aloni's claims. Yoram Ettinger, aide to deputy Foreign Minister Benjamin Natanyahu, said the U.S. Congress appeared to be less motivated to maintain strategic cooperation with Israel and more inclined to support Palestinians in their struggle for statehood, Haaretz reported. The Arab states see any settlement move as an attempt to push out Palestinians from the occupied territories. Government officials insisted that the money approved by the Finance Committee would not be used to form a new Jewish presence in the occupied West Bank or Gaza Strip. ``We are talking about already existing settlements, not forming new ones,'' Shamir's spokesman Avi Pazner said. The allocated money included $2.5 million to ``strengthen'' new settlements and $3 million for developing and expanding existing settlements. A separate sum of $2.5 million was allocated to purchase prefabricated houses and strengthen settlements in the West Bank. Ariel Weinstein, who represents Shamir's Likud bloc on the Finance Committee, said the government decided on a policy of settling the occupied territories and they should be treated as any other Israeli town. ``They need new roads, schools. Nobody thinks the government can decide not to fulfill these needs,'' Weinstein said. In Egypt, President Hosni Mubarak warned Tuesday that settlement of Soviet Jewish immigrants in Israeli-occupied lands threatens ``new bloody confrontation'' in the Middle East. He spoke at the opening session of Socialist International, a non-governmental grouping of 89 socialist parties from 47 countries.
AP881010-0125 	X	Officials in eight Northeastern states are working to adopt California's strict air pollution standards for cars and trucks in an effort to reduce smog. Fifteen cities or rural areas in the region have been named by the Environmental Protection Agency as failing to meet its ozone standard. Eleven cities violate the standard for carbon monoxide, most of which comes from motor vehicles. Metropolitan New York is the nation's worst offender for carbon monoxide and third worst for ozone. The eight states _ New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont _ already are implementing regulations to reduce gasoline volatility in the summertime, starting next year, in an attempt to lower smog levels. Air pollution directors of those states are slated to discuss the ``California plan'' again this week before formally proposing regional adoption, according to Michael Bradley, executive director of the Boston-based Northeast States for Coordinated Air Use Management. Environmental officials in Vermont, Massachusetts and New York have authority to proceed without legislative approval, he said. Experts agree that much of the ozone at any point on the northeastern seaboard originates with pollution upwind in the Boston-Washington megapolis, and it is practically impossible for any state to control the problem by itself. An EPA gasoline regulation, expected to be issued later this year, would not lower volatility to the new NESCAUM level until 1992. Gasoline vapors help form ozone, the major component of smog. The more volatile the fuel, the more vapor that escapes and the more smog that is formed. Few states have been willing to get out in front of the federal government on initiatives against air pollution, with California the most notable exception. California pioneered auto air pollution controls in the 1960s and the Clean Air Act of 1970 gave the state the right to impose stricter requirements than the federal standards for the rest of the country. To avoid the confusion of 50 potentially different standards, Congress said no other state could develop its own plan _ but any state, with EPA's permission, may adopt the entire set of California regulations. So far, none has. According to NESCAUM, the regional adoption of the California standards would cut emissions of the three principal auto pollutants _ carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and gasoline vapor _ by 50 percent within 15 years, as the car and truck fleets are replaced with models with superior pollution controls. ``One of the questions we're researching is, are we buying into future revisions of the California standards?'' Bradley said. The assessment, though, is ``extremely favorable to air quality,'' and ``My directors have said, `Let's go forward.''' The move likely means the elimination of the entire fleet of light-duty diesel vehicles, and the emission requirements could mean a slightly higher pricetag for gasoline-powered cars and trucks. California models look the same, except for required dashboard indicators tied to pollution control components. California exhausts may contain only 40 percent of the nitrogen oxides and 64 percent of the unburned gasoline permitted elsewhere. California permits twice as much carbon monoxide as the federal standard, but is planning to bring that limit down to the federal level. The auto industry has built cars to the California standards since the mid-1970s, although they don't like building two versions of the same car. California accounts for 11 percent of the national auto market. The eight Northeastern states account for 13 percent of the market. For some makes of cars, only the California version is built and it is marketed nationwide. All basic models are offered in California, but some engine-transmission combinations may not be available there. Bradley said NESCAUM had discussed its intention with the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association and MVMA had not raised any concerns. Ann Carlson of MVMA's Washington office said, ``I don't know that we've taken a position.'' Bill Noack of General Motors Corp. said he was unable to locate any executives who were aware of NESCAUM's plans. According to the EPA, the cities or areas in the eight states which have violated the carbon monoxide standard are, in descending order of severity, New York City; Hartford, Conn.; Manchester, N.H.; Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.; Syracuse, N.Y.; Nashua, New Hampshire, Newark, N.J.; Springfield, Mass; Bergen-Passaic, N.J.; Jersey City, N.J.; and Boston. Those identified as failing to meet the ozone standard are New York City and suburbs, a Connecticut-Massachusetts area including the cities of Springfield, Mass., and Bristol, Hartford, Middletown, New Britain, New Haven and New London in Connecticut; Providence, R.I.; Knox County, Maine; York County, Maine; Atlantic City, N.J.; Boston; New Bedford, Mass.; Portland, Maine; Hancock County, Maine; Jefferson County, New York; Lincoln County, Maine; Portsmouth, New Hampshire; Worcester, Mass.; and Kennebunk County, Maine.
AP900319-0237 	X	Greyhound and its striking drivers exchanged barbs after negotiations broke down when company officials charged that union leaders failed to negotiate and were ``stepping up the violence.'' Union leaders presented a new contract proposal in talks held in Tucson on Saturday, but the company said it was unacceptable. Negotiations broke off Sunday after only about an hour. A federal mediator said he is disappointed but not surprised that the first negotiations in the 18-day-old Greyhound bus drivers' strike quickly broke off. ``The issues remaining are serious and they are many, and it's not unusual at this stage of negotiations for both sides to remain very firm in their position,'' said Paul F. Stuckenschneider. Greyhound and union officials were less diplomatic. ``There is no way to reach an agreement with people who are trying to break down the company through intimidation, violence and terrorism,'' the company's executive vice president, Anthony Lannie, said in a statement Sunday. ``They had nothing new for us today or yesterday while stepping up the violence,'' Lannie said. ``There were a half-dozen new acts of terrorism yesterday while we were in the meeting.'' In Washington, Jeffrey Nelson, a spokesman for the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions, said Lannie's statement ``sounds to me like the desperate words of a desperate man. ``We clearly condemn violence and anything we can do to discourage our members we are doing so,'' Nelson said. Unions representing 6,300 drivers and an estimated 3,000 other Greyhound workers walked out March 2 over wages, job security and grievance procedures. Greyhound operates the only nationwide intercity bus service, and the strike has stranded many smaller communities for which buses are the only public transportation. The company said it has been operating roughly one-third of its buses with replacement and non-striking drivers, with about 400 union drivers joining 1,000 permanent replacements on the job. The union says fewer than 100 of its drivers have crossed the picket lines. Greyhound officials said there have been at least 14 shooting attacks on Greyhound buses, 46 bomb threats and numerous other incidents of vandalism or threats during the walkout. One new report of strike-related violence involved a union vice president accused of striking a driver in Fayetteville, N.C. Cumberland County, N.C., Magistrate Sam Mathis issued a warrant Saturday for the arrest of Fred Ingram of Charlotte, N.C., accusing him of assaulting Greyhound driver Stanley Harvey, 57, of Jacksonville, Fla. Ingram, who is also president of a local in Charlotte, denied striking anyone. Steve Scarpino, a Greyhound spokesman in Dallas, said other new complaints involved harassment by pickets in Mobile, Ala., an assault on a driver in Tulsa, Okla. and damaged buses in Tucson and Phoenix. In an earlier incident, driver Edwin J. Ludwigsen, 46, of Spring Lake, N.C., said he was struck on the he!e by a man. o -Bgistratwissmou$a criminalp`ummo(s for William DaniYs,fghom Greyhound said was a union member. In Florida on Sunday, the State Patbol arrested the drivers of tree vehicles that surrounded a New York-to-Miami Greyhound bus on Interstate 95 near Fort Pierce and forced it to slow down. No one on the bus was hurt, Scarpino said. Union officials said their proposal involved a $40 million three-year package that included modest pay increases of 4 percent to 5 percent and the addition of new drivers to the pension plan. A union spokesman said the company has offered a plan that included no guarantee of `ny pay hikes, but would have made raises contingent on$increased profits and ridership. Lannie said the union is ``stonewalling'' on contract talks. But union President Edward M. Strait said Greyhound never came to the bargaining table in good faith, and ``refused to make an} compromises, any concessions, from their previous unacceptable proposals.'' Stuckenschneider said he was not giving up on the negotiations. ``We hoped to have stayed longer, but we're not discouraged,'' he said. ``We hope to be back very soon.''
AP900112-0131 	X	The country's top opposition leader said Friday he may visit North Korea to discuss reunification and ways to ease tension on the divided peninsula. If Kim Dae-jung makes the visit, he would be the first South Korean political leader to visit the Communist country since the 1950-53 Korean War. ``The visit will be by myself or a party delegation,'' Kim said. Kim, head of the largest opposition political group, the Party for Peace and Democracy, said the visit would be arranged with government approval. An unauthorized visit would violate National Security Laws. Kim declined to elaborate on his plans and said he would announce further details next week. The opposition leader said he raised the possibility of a trip in talks with President Roh Tae-woo on Thursday and said Roh responded favorably. There was no comment Friday from Roh's office. If Kim visits the North Korean capital of Pyongyang, party officials said he would expect to contact Communist officials. Officials of Kim's party said the visit may take place in the first half of the year. Aides to Kim said the primary purpose would be to meet North Korean President Kim Il Sung and help create a good atmosphere for an inter-Korea summit. Roh has proposed a meeting with the North Korean president several times in the past two years, but his proposal has not been addressed specifically by the North Koreans. Two days ago, Roh told a nationally televised news conference that he wanted to meet Kim Il Sung to discuss possible free travel between the two nations. In a New Year's speech, the North Korean leader invited Roh and South Korean opposition leaders to the North for unification talks. Government officials said the invitation was a ploy to lump Roh and opposition leaders in the same category, thus undermining Roh's leadership. Government officials said the opposition leader's indictment on charges related to the other lawmaker's secret trip to North Korea would not pose a problem for his own trip. The 64-year-old opposition leader was indicted last summer for allegedly failing to report to authorities the 1988 secret trip to North Korea of one of his party's lawmakers. Kim has denied the charge. Several dissident leaders are in jail for making unauthorized trips to North Korea. Vice Unification Minister Song Han-ho said South Korea would propose creating a hot line with Pyongyang so military leaders can communicate in an emergency. Song also said his government plans to propose peaceful uses for the demilitarized zone between the two countries, exchanges of military personnel, prior notification of major military exercises and invitations for delegates to observe such maneuvers. The two nations have opened several channels of talks on personnel, economic, parliamentary and political exchanges since the early 1970s but have made little progress. Reunification is a frequent demand of anti-government protesters.
AP900321-0133 	X	Here is the text of Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's decree banning firearms sales in Lithuania and ordering residents to turn in their guns. The text, transmitted in Russian by the official news agency Tass, was translated by The Associated Press.
AP881123-0201 	X	Snow and heavy rain was on the menu Wednesday in the West, threatening to hamper Thanksgiving travel. Snow fell at 2 to 3 inches per hour Wednesday over parts of the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California. Yellowstone National Park received 2 to 5 inches of snow overnight, with as much as a foot in higher elevations. Rainfall was heavy over the Sierra Nevada foothills and valleys of northern California with street flooding early Wednesday in Sacramento. In Colorado, winds gusted to 80 mph west of Fort Collins. A 70 mph wind gust was reported southeast of Casper, Wyo. Heavy snow warnings remained in effect Wednesday over the Cascade Range in Washington state and Oregon, for the Siskiyou Mountains of Oregon and the Sierra Nevada in California and for high elevations of parts of Nevada, Idaho, Montana and Wyoming. Tropical storm warnings were discontinued along the Florida and Georgia coasts as tropical storm Keith, with 50 mph winds, moved east-northeast into the Atlantic Ocean on a track that could bring it near Bermuda in 36 hours. Much of the central and southern Plains had fair weather and temperatures in the 50s and low 60s. North Platte, Neb., reached 69 degrees Wednesday, a record high for the date. The previous high was 67 degrees set in 1902. Temperatures from the northern Plains to New England were in the 30s and 40s. Readings over much of the Intermountain region and Pacific Coast were in the 40s and 50s. Temperatures around the nation at 2 pm EST ranged from 28 degrees at Limestone, Maine, to 80 degrees at Key West, Fla. The low in the nation Wednesday morning was 3 degrees at Alamosa Colo. The forecast for Thanksgiving Day called for snow over the northern and central Intermountain region and the northern and central Rockies. Rain was expected across most of California and the Pacific Northwest. Much of the eastern half of the nation was expected to have mostly sunny skies. High temperatures were expected in the 20s and 30s over northern New England; in the 30s for the northern and central Rockies, North Dakota and eastern Montana; the 40s and 50s from the northern and central Pacific Coast across much of Colorado, Nebraska, South Dakota, the upper Mississippi Valley, the Great Lakes, the Ohio Valley, the central Appalachians, southern New England and the middle Atlantic Coast; in the 80s over south central and southeast Texas and southern parts of the Florida peninsula. Much of the remainder of the nation was expected to have high temperatures in the 60s or 70s.
AP880428-0077 	X	Andy Warhol's plastic wristwatches of Fred Flintstone, Judy Jetson and Gumby reached $2,640 in a ``wild'' bidding war _ $2,590 more than the timepieces cost the late artist in a department store, Sotheby's said. Kitschy collectibles were only some of the objects on sale Wednesday during the fifth day of the 10-day auction of Warhol's possessions. There was also serious jewelry on the block. American Indian art, including ``no end of turquoise jewelry'' was to be sold at today's auction, said Diana Brooks, president of Sotheby's North America. So far, Warhol's collection has fetched $9,072,000, more than twice Sotheby's high estimate of $3,951,000. Only 37 out of some 1,400 lots have not sold, she said. The highest bid Wednesday was $55,000 for a pair of surrealist ear clips by artist Salvador Dali, according to Ms. Brooks. The buyer, a private collector, was not identified. The ear clips, asymmetrical ruby-studded hearts with a honeycomb center set with round diamonds, had a pre-sale estimated value of $10,000 to $15,000. An 18-karat gold, garnet and diamond circular pendant, also by Dali, brought $47,300, Ms. Brooks said. The pendant, estimated at $7,500 to $10,000, depicted the profiles of Tristan and Isolde separated by a chalice. The brightly-colored cartoon watches, made by Lewco, were decorated with raised, full-length figures of Fred and Dino, his pet dinosaur; Judy Jetson standing with hands on hips; and a smiling Gumby. Warhol bought them in 1985 and 1986 at Bloomingdale's, Ms. Brooks said. In their original plastic packaging, the watches bore the original price tags of $20 and $10, she said. ``People were so wild to have the three plastic watches in the sale. They sort of symbolize the sale of the whole collection _ something people will remember,'' she said. The pre-sale estimate was $60 to $80 for all three. But in ``wild bidding'' that came down to a telephone contest between four people, the price climbed to $2,640, Ms. Brooks said. A private collector, who was not identified, won the bidding. Bloomingdale's still sells the watches in some stores, said Miraed Smith, a store spokeswoman. Another wristwatch that did well at the auction was a stainless steel piece, dated 1948, with a photo image of Gene Autry and signed ``always your pal Gene Autry.'' Sotheby's estimated it would sell for $50 to $100 but it went for $1,870, Ms. Brooks said. Proceeds from the auction will benefit the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, which will award grants to cultural institutions in the United States and abroad. Warhol died at age 58 last year.
AP900803-0181 	X	Alfred Checchi is trying to make Northwest Airlines bigger and friendlier, but he has been battling a sluggish industry and some isolated turbulence in his first year as chairman. On the Aug. 3 anniversary of the day Checchi's group finalized a $3.65 billion buyout of the nation's fourth-largest carrier, Northwest is eyeing growth despite an industry-wide slump. With eyes on Eastern Airline's Atlanta hub and possibly other Eastern jewels, Checchi has discussed the idea of buying the carrier's assets out of bankruptcy court proceedings. ``They barely had the Northwest deal done before they started looking at the landscape (for acquisitions),'' said Duane Woerth, head of the union representing Northwest's 5,600 pilots. ``He's changed the focus from top to bottom.'' In the past 18 months, Northwest has gone from being a conservatively managed takeover target with a fat balance sheet to a highly leveraged aggressor headed by industry novices. Racked with labor strife and performance problems under former chairman Steven Rothmeier, Northwest under Checchi is at peace with its unions and winning back customers who had come to know it as ``Northworst.'' But along the way there have been distractions. Three Northwest pilots were arrested March 8 and accused of flying a passenger jet while under the influence of alcohol. Northwest also has said it is one of many airlines being investigated by the Justice Department for possible industry price fixing. Checchi and other top executives at the airline have been declining interviews for weeks. But he repeatedly has said he intends to double the carrier's size in five years and make it America's most preferred airline. ``They've improved the morale and the spirit of the people, but I don't think they've made any money,'' said Mort Beyer, an aviation consultant in Arlington, Va. ``My impression is that their costs will be increasing faster than their revenues. I continue to watch it with concern.'' Since the takeover, Checchi has filled eight of the top 10 posts at Northwest and has lost a lead fleet manager to United Airlines. Former chief financial officer William Trubeck also has resigned, but will act indefinitely as a consultant. Five new executives had no airline management experience: Checchi, director Gary L. Wilson, chief executive officer Fred Rentschler, president Frederic Malek, and chief financial officer John Dasburg. Rentschler had been chief executive at Beatrice Cos. and Dasburg, Malek, Wilson and Checchi had worked together at Marriott Corp., where Wilson was Checchi's boss. ``They are primarily deal makers,'' Cliff Ehrlich, senior vice president of human resources at Marriott, said of Checchi and Wilson. ``I think they wake up in the morning thinking about deals and go to bed thinking about deals.'' Checchi has said the airline is healthy despite a $7.2 million operating loss in the final quarter of last year and a $90 million operating loss in the first quarter of this year. Nevertheless, the $3.35 billion takeover debt has been slashed to about $2 billion, putting the airline three years ahead of its seven-year repayment schedule, spokesman Doug Miller said. But most of the payments have been made from cash reserves, by selling and leasing back some planes and restructuring real estate, Beyer said. ``That can't go on forever,'' he said. ``They need better cash flows and the outlook for the year is down. The industry has had $2.5 billion in operating losses in the past nine months, but nobody pays attention to that.'' Mike Hamilton, an analyst for The Leuthhold Group of Minneapolis, said Northwest could afford an acquisition, but only at the right price. ``I don't think he'll get them (Eastern's assets) at bargain prices,'' Hamilton said, ``but there is nothing lost in trying.'' Eastern assets would fit Northwest by adding passenger loads, expanding maintenance space and feeding Northwest's Pacific Rim routes. But labor trouble could break out if Checchi hires from the non-union ranks at Eastern, said Guy Cook, president of International Association of Machinists District Lodge 143. ``We will war with them if they come up with stupid ideas,'' Cook said. ``But at this point I have no reason to war with them.'' Checchi hasn't been tested by contract talks, but Woerth and Cook say relations are vastly improved. For 40 years, Northwest workers considered themselves pawns of draconian managers, Cook said. Now they sense some cooperation. In the old days, for example, a collision of ground vehicles triggered automatic three-day suspensions, Cook said. A new disciplinary program instead emphasizes good performances, he said. ``What I notice is the people throughout the company are more proud of the airline,'' Woerth said. Meanwhile, travelers have observed a more punctual and reliable airline. Northwest recently completed six months of on-time performance, even with or ahead of comparable carriers, according to U.S. Transportation Department reports. In addition, fewer bags have been lost. The improvements dovetail with a five-year plan to invest $422 million to improve food service, seat space, cabin decor and speed of maintenance. ``When it was Northwest Orient it was a class airline,'' said Jim Maggio, whose New York firm is a travel agent for General Motors Acceptance Corp. ``They're getting back to that.'' Hamilton said the pilots' arrests and other incidents could have left bigger stains on the company. But Checchi's management team moved swiftly, including firing the pilots. Trial of the pilots began this week in federal court. ``The one thing they have is a lot of common sense,'' Hamilton said. ``They'll make a mistake, but they don't make the same mistake twice.''
AP900209-0214 	X	Criminologists and other experts tell them otherwise, but many Norwegians are convinced their country is overrun by thugs, hooligans and ``the mob.'' The experts say the public concern verges on ``national hysteria.'' They argue that Norway still has one of the world's lowest crime rates, and is nowhere near being in a league with the United States or other countries with serious crime problems. ``Our biggest crime problem is the unfounded anxiety people feel about it,'' said Nils Christie, a University of Oslo criminology professor. Muggings are rare and city parks generally are safe. Some cafeterias leave it up to the customers to leave what they owe in a till and even make their own change. Few of Norway's 4.2 million people have actually witnessed criminal violence, according to an informal poll by one newspaper. Police, who usually are unarmed, used or threatened to use weapons just 28 times last year, according to Justice Ministry figures. ``Norway is at the bottom of the list of violent crimes per capita,'' said Christie. The risk of being murdered in the United States is nine times greater than in Norway, according to a local study. Sociologist Cecilie Hoigaard listed Norway's murder rate in 1988 as 0.9 killings per 100,000 residents, compared to 1.4 in Sweden and 5.1 in France. The World Almanac said the U.S. figure was 8.3 the same year. Yet crime in Norway has increased by about 15 percent a year since 1986, according to official figures, and that's what has brought all the repercussions. ``We aren't interested in comparing ourselves to other countries,'' said Tor Aksel Busch, deputy director general of public prosecutions. ``We must compare ourselves to the way things were. It is the increase that is disturbing.'' Crimes for monetary or material gain, such as theft and fraud, represent 81 percent of the offenses. ``There is simply much more to steal because Norway's standard of living has increased enormously,'' criminologist Christie said. Norway had an economic boom when it discovered oil off its coast. From 1986 to 1988, drug arrests doubled and violent crime rose 29 percent, partly because alcohol is more accepted by ``traditionally reserved and pious Norwegians,'' Christie said. ``We Norwegians are very worried about crime,'' said Kjell Solem of the Justice Ministry. ``It is a frequent topic of debate. We started with very little and don't like the increase,'' ``Norway has an old-fashioned crime rate,'' he added. ``You have to go back 25 years to find such a low rate in Sweden. It is safe almost anywhere, any time in Norway.'' In December, robbers rammed a large truck into an armored car and escaped with about $1 million, leaving a trail of burning getaway cars. Norwegians could perhaps understand the greed but were appalled that the thieves were prepared to harm the security guards by ramming the armored car with the truck. ``People speak of moral decay, the fraying of society's fabric,'' Solem said. Crime was a major issue in last autumn's national election; everything from drugs and alcohol to video tapes and foreigners came in for the blame. The right-wing Party of Progress increased its standing in Parliament tenfold, partly on the basis of a law-and-order campaign. ``Crime has become a matter of national hysterics,'' said sociologist Thomas Mathiesen. ``There is a much greater fear of crime than there is any grounds for.'' Many Norwegians are responding by fortifying their homes. Lock sales soared 60 percent from 1987 to 1989 and burglar alarm sales are said to be on the rise. Mathiesen said fear was being spread unwittingly by the news media, politicians and even police who seek larger budgets. Tabloid newspapers routinely brand any group of criminals ``the Mafia.'' They devote sensational and lengthy coverage to murders and pursue the cases for weeks. The respected Aftenposten newspaper, in a review of the 1980s, said more crime produced more crime reporting. In the 1970s, ``trivial crimes were reported,'' it wrote. ``Now it's hard to find space for all the corruption, theft and violence.''
AP900705-0029 	X	Highlights of Wednesday's session of the 28th Communist Party congress, in its third day:
AP880705-0172 	X	Thousands of people went on strike in the capital of Armenia, apparently unhappy over the Armenian leadership's presentation of an ethnic dispute at the national Communist Party conference, a newspaper said Tuesday. The Soviet government daily Izvestia said the strike began Monday, one day after ``many thousands'' of people met in the Theater Square of Yerevan, the capital of the southern republic. Most flights in and out of Yerevan were canceled, it said. In a Tuesday edition, Izvestia said: ``Like yesterday a series of the city's industrial concerns aren't working, or are working with less than a full work force.'' It said food stores and industries, as well as restaurants and medical services had been working Monday. The newspaper said farm work was going on in Stepanakert, the largest city of the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region, but that many other industries and institutions there also were shut down. Nagorno-Karabakh is at the center of a territorial dispute between Armenia and the neighboring republic of Azerbaijan. Nagorno-Karabakh is part of Azerbaijan, but the mountain enclave's predominantly Armenian population has been agitating since February to be annexed to Armenia. Armenia supports the demand. Azerbaijan is against it. At least 32 people were killed in riots over annexation which broke out in Sumgait, Azerbaijan, at the end of February. Izvestia said the thousands of people who gathered on the Yerevan city square Sunday listened to a television broadcast by delegates to the four-day party conference in Moscow, which closed last Friday. Armenian party leader Suren Arutyunyan said in remarks broadcast on Soviet TV during the conference that authorities could not normalize the situation in Armenia, where large demonstrations frequently have occurred in support of Nagorno-Karabakh's demand. He proposed that the conference take up unspecified amendments to the Soviet constitution. The disagreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan has sent the issue to national authorities, and the constitution specifies no way to solve the dispute. Delegates who spoke on television supported Arutyunyan's call for restraint and went directly to the square to talk to the crowd. But Izvestia said that after a ``stormy debate'' on the square, a committee was formed that called for a general strike after laying down a series of demands, including a quick, favorable resolution of the Nagorno-Karabakh issue. The committee demanded that the Soviet Supreme Court take over the trials of those charged in the Sumgait violence and demanded full information about the alleged poisoning of workers at a factory in the town of Masis. Izvestia provided no more information about the Masis incident, except to say an investigation was under way. The party conference called for greater attention to republics' calls for economic autonomy, but said authorities would not tolerate efforts to whip up ethnic tensions. Besides Azerbaijan and Armenia, delegates from the Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia also brought up ethnic questions at the conference. About a dozen protesters demanding freedom for three Estonian political prisoners had gathered more than 6,000 signatures by Tuesday during a five-day demonstration in Tallinn, Estonia. ``We will continue the demonstration until they are freed or until the authorities give us an exact date for their release,'' Eve Parnaste said as she carried a poster at the protest outside the Estonian Supreme Court building. She said the three prisoners had been demanding publication of a secret 1939 pact between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union that placed the Baltic republics of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia under Moscow's control. All three were arrested this year, charged with spreading anti-Soviet propaganda or slandering the Soviet state. Miss Parnaste's poster said, ``KGB is an evil empire,'' using the initials for the Soviet secret police.
AP900725-0055 	X	Morty Nevins, the accordion-playing member of The Three Suns group of the 1940s and '50s, has died. He was 73. Nevins, the last surviving member of the original group, died of cancer Friday at his Beverly Hills home, his daughter, Ferielle Faine said Tuesday. The Three Suns sold several million records over a 20-year span, including ``Peg o' My Heart'' and the trio's signature tune, ``Twilight Time.'' Nevins' brother, Al, played guitar while his cousin, Artie Dunn, sang and played the organ. The Three Suns performed for radio, played club and hotel dates across the nation and were regulars on singer Kate Smith's television show in the early 1950s. The original members disbanded when Al's health began to deteriorate, but Dunn recruited other musicians for several years. Nevins continued to compose music, producing such hit tunes as ``These Things I Offer You for a Lifetime,'' ``Lovers' Gold,'' ``You Are My Destiny'' and ``Midnight for Two.'' Al Nevins died in 1965, and Dunn in 1989.
AP901101-0165 	X	High pressure Thursday over the mid-Atlantic states produced warm winds from Texas to the plains and the Mississippi Valley to the Great Lakes region. Afternoon temperatures in the Midwest and East were in the 60s and 70s. A low pressure system that could grow into a winter storm developed in the Southwest and the West's central mountain ranges. A cold front moved southeast across Utah. About six inches of new snow was expected in the state's northern and southern mountains by Friday. Alta, Utah reported two inches of snow by Thursday morning. Lighter snow fell across parts of western and southern Wyoming, with 1 to 3 inches reported at Yellowstone Park. Windy conditions were reported in the Arizona and Southern California deserts and scattered showers fell across sections of Arizona. Record high temperatures reported Thursday include 75 degrees in Aberdeen, S.D., and Alpena, Mich., 85 in Dodge City, Kan., 83 in Concordia, Kan., and 79 in Kansas City, Mo. Heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. EST included nearly a quarter inch at Glasgow, Mont., and more than a tenth of an inch at Malad, Idaho. The nation's low Thursday was 20 degrees in Saranac Lake, N.Y. Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EST ranged from 32 degrees in Ely, Nev., to 89 degrees at Gage, Okla.
AP880611-0151 	X	The Justice Department is evaluating the case against a group of CIA employees who took 86 rare misprinted stamps from their office and sold them for thousands of dollars, a department spokesman said Saturday. Justice Department spokesman Tom Stewart said the agency's public integrity section had received the case and that ``they deal in bringing criminal charges, if necessary.'' ``I would not want you to think that something is imminent,'' he said. The Washington Post reported in Sunday's editions that the Justice Department was considering bringing criminal charges against the nine CIA employees, who discovered the rare stamps in the agency's supplies and sold them. The Post quoted unidentified intelligence and Justice Department sources as saying the CIA completed an internal review of what stamp collectors call the discovery of ``the CIA invert'' and turned the case over to the Justice Department for possible prosecution. The public integrity section is debating whether to bring charges of theft or misappropriation of government supplies against the employees, who replaced a sheet of 95 $1 stamps bearing an upside-down candlestick with a sheet of stamps that did not have the rare error, the newspaper said. Each member of the group kept one of the stamps and they sold the 86 remaining stamps in 1986 to a New Jersey dealer for thousands of dollars. Their identities were never made public. A CIA spokesman did not immediately return a telephone call Saturday about the case.
AP900427-0058 	X	A Red Cross delegation arrived in this southern provincial capital today, seeking word on the possible release of two kidnapped Swiss Red Cross workers. The delegation's four members made no statement upon arriving at the office of the International Committee of the Red Cross in Sidon, 25 miles south of Beirut. However, a committee source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the four planned to maintain ``daily presence in Sidon this week, waiting for a contact concerning our two kidnapped colleagues.'' The team was led by the Red Cross chief delegate in Lebanon, Michel Dufour, and the committee's spokeswoman for the Middle East, Marjolaine Martin, who flew into Beirut from Geneva on Wednesday. ``We remain optimistic after our talks here about the release of our two officials,'' Dufour said, without elaborating. The delegation is seeking the release of Red Cross orthopedic technicians Emanuel Christen, 33, and Elio Erriquez, 24. They were kidnapped by unidentified gunmen in Sidon on Oct. 6. No group claims responsibility for their seizure. However, Lebanese and foreign security sources blame the Fatah-Revolutionary Council group of Palestinian terrorist Abu Nidal. The group has denied involvement and urged the captors to release Christen and Erriquez. The Red Cross team held talks on Thursday with Mustafa Saad, who heads the Sunni Moslem independent Nasserite organization whose 1,000-strong Popular Liberation Army militia dominates Sidon. Saad renewed his appeal for the release of the two Red Cross workers, saying failure to free them ``will be considered a hostile act against us.'' Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, as well as Palestinian and Lebanese groups, have appealed for the pair's release. In addition to the two Swiss, the Western hostages believed to be held mainly by pro-Iranian factions in Lebanon are seven Americans, four Britons, two West Germans, an Irishman and an Italian. American journalist Terry Anderson, 43, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, is the longest-held foreign captive in Lebanon. He was kidnapped March 16, 1985.
AP900727-0049 	X	Brent Mydland, keyboard player, singer and songwriter since 1979 for the psychedelic rock band the Grateful Dead, was found dead in his home. He was 37. Friends discovered Mydland's body Thursday in the bedroom of his home in Lafayette, a suburb 25 miles east of San Francisco, said Sgt. Richard Terry of the Contra Costa County Coroner's office. It was not clear when or how Mydland died, but there was no sign of foul play, Terry said. An autopsy was scheduled for today. Mydland had returned Tuesday from a three week national tour with the band, Terry said. ``We lost a brother, and we are very devastated,'' Grateful Dead spokesman Dennis McNally said. Surviving band members met Thursday night ``to talk, to grieve and to figure out what to do next,'' McNally said. Tickets already have been sold for Grateful Dead shows in August and September in California, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York City and in October in Sweden, West Germany, France and England. The Grateful Dead formed in 1965 and were at the forefront of the psychedelic counterculture movement in San Francisco. Among their better known songs are ``Truckin','' ``Casey Jones'' and ``Touch of Grey.'' Known for their diverse live sets and spontaneous ``jams,'' the Grateful Dead today retain a strong following of fans known as ``Deadheads.'' Many fans follow the band from show to show and trade tapes of concerts, which the band lets them record. Mydland joined the band in April 1979, replacing keyboardist Keith Godchaux, who died a year later in an auto accident. Godchaux had replaced keyboardist Ron ``Pig Pen'' McKernan, who died of cirrhosis of the liver at age 27 in 1973. Mydland was born in Germany to American parents stationed there with the military and grew up in the San Francisco area. As a teen-ager, he played with small local rock 'n' roll bands. He worked with the group Batdorf and Rodney in the early 1970s, then joined the Los Angeles-based rock band Silver. He joined the Grateful Dead after a stint with rhythm guitarist and vocalist Bob Weir's side band Bobby and the Midnites. At first Mydland had played in the shadow of the other more famous band members, including lead guitarist and vocalist Jerry Garcia. But he developed a greater presence in recent years, writing more songs and helping the band's harmonies with what McNally called his ``rough, bluesy textured voice.'' John Barlow, who had collaborated with Mydland on most of his songs, said, ``Brent could pick his way through anything immediately, which meant he had the special requirement it was going to take to walk into the Dead overnight. ``He was musically central to the band, but he was so good at what he did that he was able to become fundamental to everything that the band was doing musically without it being immediately apparent to the audience,'' Barlow said. Tunes Mydland wrote include ``Far From Me'' and the environmental ballad ``We Can Run (But We Can't Hide),'' used recently in an Audubon Society video. Most recently, Mydland frequently performed his ``I Will Take You Home,'' a lullaby written for his two young daughters. He is survived by his wife, Lisa, his daughters and his parents, who live in the Sacramento area.
AP901030-0150 	X	A woman who locked her 5-year-old daughter in a car while she worked part-time went to court Tuesday to regain custody of the girl from the county, but court officials said the judge didn't rule. Police and court officials said the case was continued. They spoke on condition of anonymity because Family Court rules require that cases be kept confidential. The mother, Chante Fernandez, canceled a news conference she had planned after the hearing and refused to speak to reporters as she dashed from the Union County Courthouse to a limousine. Her attorney and police officers shielded Ms. Fernandez from the nearly reporters who waited in the courthouse garage. Ms. Fernandez' daughter, Anjuli, is under the care of the New Jersey Division of Youth and Family Services pending resolution of the case. The girl wasn't present at the hearing, a welfare official said. Ms. Fernandez, 24, of Elizabeth, was jailed after police found her pajama-clad daughter, Anjuli, in the trunk of a car on Oct. 20 at the Woodbridge Center mall, where Mrs. Fernandez worked part-time on weekends. The back seat was folded down so the girl could move about inside the car, and the mother said she checked on her daughter during work breaks. The mother said her combined income of nearly $500 a week from two jobs disqualified her from local or state child care services. During the week, she was a secretary at a lumber company; the weekend job was at a department store in the mall. The case has drawn an outpouring of support from New Jersey residents, who have offered her money, child care help and jobs. Ms. Fernandez pleaded guilty Friday to a disorderly persons offense and received a $100 suspended fine. The mother, who is divorced, said she left her daughter in the car while she worked at the mall because she was unable to find a reliable and affordable baby sitter. She also said she couldn't get local or state child care services. Ms. Fernandez initially was charged with criminal restraint, a felony, and spent two days in jail before posting $5,000 bail. The prosecutor reduced the charge to a disorderly persons offense after reviewing the case and concluding that the girl wasn't neglected or abused. Only Ms. Fernandez, her attorney, state welfare officials and court officers were allowed inside the hearing before Union County Judge John Callahan on Tuesday. Some relatives of Ms. Fernandez were allowed to stand outside the second- floor courtroom, but were stopped at the lobby.
AP901219-0117 	X	The Army said Wednesday it has alerted three National Guard and Reserve MASH units to prepare for mobilization and deployment to the Persian Gulf. Also put on alert were two Army Reserve combat support hospitals and one general hospital, plus a variety of medical specialists from Army Hospitals nationwide. The mobilizations are part of a broad Pentagon push to strengthen medical support and supplies in the gulf as the pace of U.S. troop deployments increases. The three Mobile Army Surgical Hospital, or MASH, units put on alert are: the 159th Medical Hospital of the Louisiana National Guard at Jackson Barracks in New Orleans; the 300th Medical Hospital of the Tennessee National Guard at Smyrna; and the 807th Medical Hospital of the Army Reserve at Paducah, Ky. Maj. Hooper Penuel, a spokesman for the Tennessee Guard, said the 300th Medical Hospital reported for active duty Dec. 9 and its 230 members are at Fort Campbell, Ky., awaiting further orders. The Army announcement said the unit had been placed on alert but not yet activated. At least three other MASH units from the Guard and Reserve had been called up earlier in Operation Desert Shield. The units, made famous by the television series ``MASH,'' provide surgical and other emergency treatment of battle casualties at the rear of the combat zone. Also put on alert were Guard and Reserve units in a variety of medical-related specialties, including general medical service, dentistry, preventive medicine, blood distribution, air evacuation and veterinary services. Veterinarians inspect meat used for troops. Last week, the Navy said it was adding two 500-bed combat-zone field hospitals in Saudi Arabia and calling up thousands more reserve medical specialists.
AP900326-0199 	X	Today is Friday, April 6, the 96th day of 1990. There are 269 days left in the year. Today's highlight in history: On April 6, 1909, American explorer Robert Edwin Peary became the first person to lead an expedition to the North Pole. On this date: In 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized by Joseph Smith at Fayette, N.Y. In 1862, the Civil War Battle of Shiloh began as the Confederates attacked Union forces in Tennessee. In 1892, author and newscaster Lowell Thomas was born in Woodington, Ohio. In 1896, the first modern Olympic Games were formally opened in Athens, Greece. In 1917, Congress approved a declaration of war against Germany. In 1963, the United States and Britain signed an agreement under which the Americans would sell Polaris A-3 missiles to the British. In 1965, the United States launched the Early Bird communications satellite. In 1971, the Russian-born composer Igor Stravinsky died in New York City. In 1984, the space shuttle Challenger blasted off for the fifth time on a weeklong mission. In 1987, the Dow Jones industrial average closed above 2,400 for the first time. In 1988, Tirza Porat, a 15-year-old Israeli girl, was killed in a West Bank melee. (Although Arabs were initially blamed for her death, the Israeli army concluded that Tirza had been accidentally shot by a Jewish settler.) Ten years ago: Easter services were held for the American hostages in Iran, on their 155th day of captivity. Visiting clergymen reported the captives were in good condition. Five years ago: William J. Schroeder became the first artificial heart recipient to be discharged from the hospital when he moved into an apartment in Louisville, Ky. Gaafar Nimeiri, the president of Sudan, was overthrown in a coup. One year ago: Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev met with British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in London, holding daylong talks that were characterized as argumentative, but friendly. Today's birthdays: Composer-conductor Andre Previn is 61. Actor Ivan Dixon is 59. Country singer Merle Haggard is 53. Actor Billy Dee Williams is 53. Actor Roy Thinnes is 52. Singer Michelle Phillips is 46. Actor John Ratzenberger is 43. Actress Marilu Henner is 38. Figure skater Janet Lynn is 37. Thought for today: ``Men are not against you; they are merely for themselves.'' _ Gene Fowler, American journalist and author (1890-1960).
AP901001-0226 	X	Backers of legislation to re-regulate cable television prices and services say they'll be back next year with an even tougher bill following a defeat in the Senate. On Sept. 28, Sen. Timothy Wirth, D-Colo., objected to bringing the bill to the floor for debate or a vote, where it was expected to pass easily. Faced with a possible filibuster, a sponsor of the bill, Sen. Daniel Inouye, D-Hawaii, declared the measure ``dead and buried'' for the 101st Congress. Congress is expected to adjourn as early as the middle of October. Backers of the bill said that the cable industry's victory might be short-lived and that it would only strengthen the hand of would-be competitors. Home satellite companies are itching to compete with cable and are expected to push provisions of the Senate bill that would guarantee them access to cable programming. Broadcasters also want cable to pay for the programming it now takes virtually for free. ``There may come a time when the cable industry will devoutly wish they had taken today's deal,'' said Edward O. Fritts, president of the National Association of Broadcasters. The Office of Management and Budget had issued a veto warning on the bill, which would have restored some of the government oversight of cable that Congress lifted in 1984. OMB said that the bill imposed too many restrictions on cable and that increased competition - perhaps from the telephone industry - was the answer to any problems in the cable industry. Basic cable prices on average have risen 43 percent in the past three years.
AP900809-0188 	X	Struggling with weak sales, Volkswagen United States Inc. is offering a 30-day money back guarantee on its mid-size Passat automobiles. Anyone unsatisfied with a Passat car or station wagon in the first 30 days or 3,000 miles of ownership may return it and get their money back, Bill Young, vice president in charge of Volkswagen United States, said Wednesday. Other automakers have offered or are offering similar guarantees, although none allow a buyer to walk away with their money. Oldsmobile, for example, is offering to let buyers of its 1990 models who are not satisfied after the first 30 days or 1,500 miles of ownership return a car for credit toward the purchase of another Oldsmobile. At VW, Gelgota said, ``You get the full refund, sales tax, title and license fees and everything. It's your cash back.'' VW doesn't think it is risking its money, Gelgota said. ``It's based on our research. Ninety-seven percent of our customers are so satisfied they would recommend the Passat to a friend or relative.'' VW will purchase any returned cars from dealers, Gelgota said.
AP880811-0004 	X	IVRY-SUR-SEINE, France (AP) _ A stone's throw from the Seine River, the bit of a drill under a towering white derrick bores a hole under suburban Paris in search of oil that might one day be dubbed Paris Crude. ``Normally, I do the North Sea,'' drilling superviser Lars Froybu said Wednesday during a tour of the site. ``This is quite different. ``There, you are in the sea and live on a rig for 24 hours a day. Here, 10 minutes away you can find lots of good restaurants. You're drilling in civilization.'' Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine, a state-owned oil company, started sinking the exploratory well at Ivry, on the southern edge of Paris, Tuesday. It is the first of several such wells planned under the Paris-Ile de France permit, which covers Paris and its northern, eastern and southern suburbs. The permit was awarded in December 1985 to Elf, Total Compagnie Francaises des Petroles, and British Petroleum after competition reached a pinnacle in the search for oil in the Paris Basin, 50,000 square miles stretching east from Paris to the West German border. For years there have been rumblings that the City of Light itself might be sitting on crude, a theory that provoked smiles, cute headlines and gags about industrializing the Eiffel Tower. Oil companies are less fanciful. The Elf-Total-BP association already has spent $11.6 million on its permit, most of it for seismic tests, according to the chief of Elf's French operations, Bruno Weymuller. The Paris Basin contains 40 million tons of known oil reserves, 48 operating wells and about 600 exploratory wells. With a discovery rate of 1 in 12 wells, compared to the 1 in 20 average, the Basin is increasingly drawing foreign oil companies, although oil executives concede it will never be Houston. But ``no one dared go into this area before,'' Louis Prudhomme, Elf's assistant director of French operations, said of the region. About 10 million people live in the 587 square miles covered by the permit, and Elf is making a special effort to be discreet, at least as discreet as one can be with a 165-foot oil derrick operating round-the-clock. Motors powering the drill are kept in sheds beside the derrick. A wall to cut noise was erected to help shield residents of an apartment block across the street. A special phone line was installed to receive complaints. ``We've tried to protect the environment to a maximum,'' said Prudhomme. Ivry, on the left bank of the Seine, is one of several sites considered promising on the basis of seismic tests. The objective of the Ivry drilling is in fact about a half-mile from the derrick, on the right bank of the Seine. That means the bit grinding its way 2,000 yards into the earth must follow a deviated course, complicating drilling, officials said. By Wednesday morning, a hole 2,067 foot deep had been bored, the drilling superviser said. The operation is to be completed in about three weeks. A positive find would mean boring ``appreciation'' wells nearby to determine the size of the oil deposit, according to Elf officials. Total has said it plans to start drilling before the end of the year. Limited seismic tests of the capital, made two years ago, revealed that the center of Paris was ``not a geological priority,'' Elf officials said. ``Is there oil under Paris? We will only know when we've drilled. That is the moment of truth.'' Prudhomme said. ``We've already staked out forage sites if one day we have to work in Paris.'' A derrick could be erected at a stadium or in an unused train station or abandoned apartment buildings, according to officials who do not rule out rigging a derrick on a boat on the Seine. No one in France stands to get rich overnight by owning land on a drilling site. The property owner receives a modest ``rent'' from the oil company, but the state controls mineral rights. Parisians, easily moved to protest, remain placid in the face of the Ivry drilling. ``If they put a gas pump on my route and lower the price, that's all I care about,'' said Jean-Louis Ribolla, a waiter near the Champs Elysees. ``Finding oil in the Place de la Concorde would be quite refined,'' he added, winking.
AP900501-0033 	X	Fighting mounting political and labor turmoil, President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro is promising to replace the longtime Sandinista military chief soon and open talks to disarm Contra rebels. The leader of the new U.S.-backed government also said Monday she is disbanding the secret police, which the leftist Sandinistas had controlled. Mrs. Chamorro, speaking at her first news conference since she took office last week, also gave an idea of the economic difficulties she faces. She said the Sandinistas had left just $3 million in the treasury and an $11 billion foreign debt. ``That is why it is urgent that we apply severe measures that will allow us in the short term to stabilize the currency and prices, to guarantee investment and the productive effort now that this year's agricultural cycle is starting,'' she said. Last week, Mrs. Chamorro devalued Nicaragua's cordoba by about half. The devaluation sharply increased prices, causing more hardship in an already poor country. Mrs. Chamorro on Wednesday succeeded Daniel Ortega after a decade of Sandinista rule and nine years of war with U.S.-backed Contras rebels. On Monday, she said she would pursue reform as soon as possible and appealed for support from both friends and foes. Her shaky new government faced new challenges today, with two labor groups planning separate protests to mark International Labor Day. A Sandinista union has organized a protest to back demands for 100 percent pay raises for all workers and the disbanding of Contra rebels. Four anti-Sandinista unions were to rally to demand the removal of Gen. Humberto Ortega as the armed forces chief. At her news conference Monday, the president promised that Ortega, the brother of the former president, will remain only temporarily as chief of the armed forces. She also said she would hold talks Wednesday with Contra military chief Israel Galeano to ask him to disarm his forces. Mrs. Chamorro's decision to serve as her own defense minister and keep Ortega as commander split her own 14-party United National Opposition, which she led to a landslide victory in elections Feb. 25. The Contras promised to surrender their weapons and disband by June 10, then balked after Mrs. Chamorro announced that Gen. Ortega would remain military chief. They say they want an end to Sandinista control of the military and police. At her news conference, Mrs. Chamorro said she understood how her supporters ``would like a drastic and immediate change'' in the armed forces. But she added: ``We need to do things well, even if it means resuming temporary sacrifices to guarantee the tranquility and stability of the country.'' She repeated that she had told Gen. Ortega several times his job was temporary, and she explained she kept him on ``to ensure the unity and discipline of the army'' while the Contras disarm. She announced that the powerful secret police force, which was run by the Sandinista Interior Ministry, is being disbanded. But she did not go into details. She also said she was ending the use of exit visas, which the Sandinistas required that both Nicaraguans and foreigners obtain to leave the country. Mrs. Chamorro further appealed to her vice president, Virgilio Godoy, to remain loyal. He is engaged in a bitter power struggle with some of her close advisers. On Monday, he was on an unexplained trip out of the country. ``I trust that the vice president ... will accompany and support me with the total loyalty in the making of the great decisions and in the fulfillment of the complex tasks with which the people of Nicaragua have entrusted us,'' she said.
AP900807-0170 	X	People awaiting compensation from the Manville trust fund for asbestos victims will have to wait at least another month. U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein in Brooklyn on Monday extended for 30 days a freeze on payments for asbestos-related diseases to allow completion of a plan to restructure the financially ailing trust. Weinstein said the extension would allow completion of a court-appointed reorganization plan for the trust, which has run out of money to pay new claims by thousands of workers made sick from inhaling asbestos fibers. But Leon Silverman, the bankruptcy court-appointed adviser supervising the reorganization, said ``it is almost impossible to conclude'' that the more than 130,000 pending claimants would receive the full value of their claims. The reorganization is designed to speed payments and alter the compensation scheme to process claims based on victims' health and financial need rather than when they file a claim. Weinstein last month set Monday as a deadline for the overhaul plan and froze spending during the process to prevent a further cash drain. The trust was created in 1988 as part of Manville Corp.'s bankruptcy court reorganization, a result of rising liability from lung cancer and other serious and fatal diseases caused by asbestos. The trust has paid $974 million to settle more than 22,000 cases, but still has 130,000 claims pending. A cash shortfall led the trust recently to say it would not be able to pay new claims until well into the 21st century. U.S. District Judge Thomas D. Lambros in Cleveland on Monday proposed consolidating pending Manville trust claims with a private consortium that has been negotiating settlements for other asbestos-makers. Under the proposal, the Center for Claims Resolution in Princeton, N.J., would be annexed to the legal system and directed by a board of judges with input from plaintiffs and defense lawyers and other parties involved. The center, which is funded by 20 asbestos defendants and insurance companies, has settled 36,000 claims in 18 months. Lambros said a court-affiliated center could minimize transaction costs and resolve pending claims until a long-term national settlement scheme is reached. Silverman said progress had been made toward providing ``meaningful funds in the near term to victims without sacrificing the long-term value of the Manville stock.'' The trust effectively owns 80 percent of Denver-based Manville, which must make annual payments to the trust beginning next year and is shielded from further legal liability for asbestos claims. Weinstein and Silverman supported continuing an injunction barring lawsuits against Manville, which would hurt the trust by depleting the value of Manville assets. But the judge criticized Manville, saying the company was unrealistic about its role in refinancing the trust. Weinstein in the past has suggested that the company should make new direct payments of more than $200 million to the trust. Manville has said its financial commitment ended with large contributions when the trust was created and its role is to strengthen Manville to bolster the trust's value. Manville Chief Executive Thomas Stephens said he was disappointed with Weinstein's comments. He said the company had offered to inject $500 million last November through a stock repurchase plan. In an interview, Stephens said the company last week recommended a plan to inject some cash into the trust, which in return would sell some Manville stock into the marketplace. ``We're fully aware and sympathetic of the needs of the claimants and are doing everything we can to optimize today's dollar and tomorrow's dollar,'' he said. The trust, based in Washington, is named in more than 100,000 lawsuits on the dockets of every federal district court and more than 500 state courts nationwide. The cash shortage at the trust had been anticipated, but made worse by more cases, larger payouts and quicker settlements than expected. Victims had received an average of $43,000 per claim, compared with estimates of $25,000. According to court documents, the trust has $93.2 million to pay $112.8 million in claims already settled. That money is frozen by the judge's order. Asbestos, a white mineral used for heat resistance and insulation, was widely used in shipbuilding, construction and other industries. Six federal judges are scheduled to meet later this week in Washington to discuss prospects for consolidating the asbestos litigation docket into a class action to speed resolution.
AP901213-0056 	X	Five U.S. diplomats from Kuwait today abandoned their besieged embassy and flew to Baghdad to join a last batch of Americans leaving Iraq and the occupied emirate aboard a U.S.-chartered Iraqi jet. Officials said the diplomats and 25 other Americans aboard the Boeing 707 that landed in Baghdad would be among 94 foreigners leaving in the afternoon on an Iraqi Airways flight to Frankfurt, Germany, in what was said to be the last charter plane carrying out foreign nationals. U.S. Ambassador Nathaniel Howell, Barbara Bodine, the deputy chief of mission in Kuwait, and three other American diplomats from Kuwait were whisked through the departure lounge and made no comment in Baghdad. ``They are in good spirits and good shape and ready to get back to the States,'' and American embassy official said on condition of anonymity. But while Iraq was allowing the completion of a blanket hostage release announced one week ago, it remained at odds with Washington over when Secretary of State James A. Baker III can visit Baghdad for talks on preventing war. On Wednesday, the Bush administration accused President Saddam Hussein of blocking any agreement. The administration says Iraq's insistence on a Jan. 12 date for the visit is too close to the Jan. 15 deadline a U.N. resolution has set for Iraq to relinquish Kuwait or face possible attack. There is no disagreement over Iraq's foreign minister, Tariq Aziz, meeting with President Bush in Washington on Monday, but the United States says it will not receive him unless a date has been set for Baker's visit. The Bush administration has suggested any time between Dec. 20 and Jan. 3. Also today, Algerian President Chadli Bendjedid left Baghdad for Iran after beginning a new Arab peace mission the day before during talks with Saddam. Among those waiting at the Baghdad airport for today's flight to Frankfurt were three families who missed a Tuesday flight because the Kuwaiti wives of Americans had to obtain Iraqi passports, officials said. The embassy had no estimate on the number of Americans or other passengers who would fly out of the country today on the Frankfurt-bound charter. State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said in Washington on Wednesday that 15 Americans would be aboard the flight. Officials in Baghdad said that all others who wished to leave Kuwait and Iraq would do so by regular flights or by ground transportation. In other last-stage charter flights, 78 Japanese arrived in Tokyo Wednesday and 313 mostly British passengers landed in London on a chartered Iraqi Airways jet from Baghdad. Iraq had barred thousands of foreigners from travel after its Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. It held hundreds of them - mostly Americans, Britons and Japanese - at strategic sites to deter a feared attack by U.S.-led forces sent to the region in response to the invasion. About 188 Americans have been evacuated from Iraq and Kuwait over the last week. They include 70 people who were in hiding, 86 men kept as ``human shields'' and 32 private citizens who had found refuge in U.S. compounds. U.S. officials estimate that about 500 Americans - most of them children with dual citizenship - are remaining. Howell and his colleagues at the U.S. embassy in Kuwait defied Iraqi orders to close in August. Gradually, all but the British and Americans removed their diplomats as Iraq cut off utilities and posted soldiers outside the compounds. Britain has joined the United States in deciding to remove its remaining diplomats now that the last of both countries' citizens are leaving Kuwait. Britain says its embassy staff will leave in the next week. On Nov. 30, a day after the U.N. Security Council passed the use-of-force resolution, Bush proposed the diplomatic exchange as a last-ditch effort to avoid war. Iraq accepted the idea, but Boucher complained Wednesday that Baghdad ``continued to block agreement on dates.'' Said the State Department spokesman: `We have offered 15 dates and Iraq has offered none.'' He said Baker is ``willing to go to Baghdad for a meeting on any one of the 15 days between Dec. 20 and Jan. 3 because we think these meetings are important and because we are serious about them.''
AP900425-0140 	X	Czechoslovak President Vaclav Havel on Wednesday briefed Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir on a meeting he had with the leader of the PLO and offered his help in mediating between Israel and the Palestinians. Shamir, who opposes any dealings with the PLO, did not appear to take Havel up on his offer. Havel, who on his arrival earlier Wednesday became the first Eastern European leader to visit the Jewish state, met with PLO chief Yasser Arafat in Prague this month. ``(Havel) said he has a great interest in this conflict and would like to help. But he knows it is complicated. We did not discuss any specific steps that could be taken by Czechoslovakia in this respect,'' Shamir told reporters. Havel ``told me briefly about his meeting with Arafat,'' Shamir said. He refused to elaborate. Havel, 54, a playwright and former dissident, was quoted by the Hebrew daily Haaretz as saying Arafat assured him that the Palestine Liberation Organization wants Israel to adopt U.S. proposals for starting a Palestinian-Israeli dialogue. Arafat ``stressed repeatedly that he attaches great hopes to my peace mission,'' Havel said, but added he could not vouch for Arafat's sincerity. Shamir's spokesman, Avi Pazner, said no dialogue was possible with Arafat, either directly or through intermediarie. ``What Arafat wants is the disappearance of Israel. Therefore, we don't want to have any dialogue with Mr. Arafat, not direct or indirect,'' Pazner told The Associated Press. Referring to Havel, he added, ``Even if our friend has the best of intentions, we will not take him up on that.'' Havel also met with Foreign Minister Moshe Arens and Shimon Peres, head of the center-left Labor Party. Labor, which supports the U.S. peace proposals, is trying to form a new government. Shamir indicated he asked the Czechoslovak leader to allow Prague to serve as a transit point for flights of Soviet Jewish immigrants bound for Israel. ``We discussed our interest in the help from Czechoslovakia in the efforts to resolve the questions ... of the immigration of Jewish people from the Soviet Union to Israel,'' Shamir said without elaboration. Yosef Govrin, a senior Israeli foreign ministry official, said talks are under way on air connections and that flights could start by summer. Czechoslovakia has said it has been unable to serve as a transit point because it was unable to provide the necessary security. Arab militants have threatened to disrupt flights through East Europe to block the influx of Soviet Jews to Israel. Czechoslovakia and other Eastern European states, with the exception of Romania, followed the Kremlin's lead in cutting ties with Israel after the 1967 Middle East war, in which Israel seized land from Moscow's Arab allies. But Israel now has full diplomatic ties with Romania, Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia as well as low-level ties with the Soviet Union. Negotiations are under way with East Germany and Bulgaria.
AP880714-0242 	X	Britain's unemployment rate fell to a seasonally adjusted 8.4 percent in June from 8.6 percent in the previous month, while industrial production rose 0.6 percent in May, the government said Thursday. The unemployment rate also was down from 10.4 percent in June 1987, the Department of Employment said. However, the department said half the decline in the latest month was the result of a new definition of employment. People employed by government job training programs now are being counted as employed. The new practice brings Britain more in line with other European countries' methods of defining employment and adds about 334,000 persons to the ranks of the employed, the department said. Total seasonally adjusted British unemployment came to 2.38 million people in June, down from a revised 2.41 million people in May and 2.92 million people in June 1987, the department said. Meanwhile, industrial production was up 3.8 percent from a year earlier, according to the Central Statistical Office. The latest figures compare with April's revised 1 percent month-to-month rise and 4 percent year-to-year rise. The office said the index of industrial production, which uses a 1980 base of 100, rose to 116.7 in May from a revised 116 in April and was up from 112.4 in May 1987.
AP881004-0275 	X	The executive director of the National Center for Health Promotion issued a warning against smokeless cigarettes Tuesday, saying the smoking alternative is as dangerous as low-tar cigarettes. ``Anyone who suggests that smokeless cigarettes are a healthy smoking option is perpetrating a cruel fraud on the American public,'' Michael Samuelson said. Smokeless cigarettes recently were introduced by RJR Nabisco Inc. The Ann Arbor-based center said many smokers may try the cigarettes as a way to quit smoking, but Samuelson said people who use smokeless cigarettes continue their physical and psychological addiction to nicotine. Samuelson also warned that non-smokers who inhale carbon monoxide produced by smokeless cigarettes also endanger their health.
AP880708-0298 	X	The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 16.54 to 2,106.15, bringing its loss for the week to 25.43 points. Declining issues outnumbered advances by more than 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, with 551 up, 854 down and 530 unchanged. Big Board volume totaled 136.07 million shares, against 156.10 million in the previous session. The NYSE's composite index fell .81 to 152.81.
AP900514-0084 	X	A U.S. military transport helicopter crashed in eastern Panama, injuring 15 American servicemen, a U.S. Southern Command spokesman said Monday. Spokesman William Ormsbee said in a telephone interview that the Black Hawk aircraft crashed at 2:30 p.m. Sunday in the eastern province of Darien. The injured were taken to Gorgas Military Hospital in Panama City. Ormsbee refused to disclose their identities or the extent of their injuries until next of kin were notified. He also gave no details about the crash and did not say if the helicopter was involved at the time in military exercises.
AP880425-0222 	X	For William Broyles Jr., Vietnam veteran, author and former magazine editor, the juxtaposition of an evacuation hospital and an R-and-R center near Da Nang seemed the perfect TV setting to capture not just the war's horror but also its black humor. ``China Beach,'' the show Broyles co-created with writer-producer John Sacret Young, premieres tonight as a two-hour movie on ABC, then will run for six Wednesdays. It tells the story of Vietnam from a different perspective, that of three women in Vietnam in late 1967, a nurse, a Red Cross volunteer and an entertainer. ``China Beach is the name of a real area,'' said Broyles. ``I was there during the war. It's south of Da Nang on the ocean. It's like an in-country rest-and-recreation area. Right next to it was the 95th Evacuation Hospital. Those two worlds are what the show's all about. It had a strange Club Med atmosphere and the very intense reality of the hospital. ``If there's any word I'd use, it's the contrast between the R-and-R area and the hospital. This is not a war story, but the war setting does give us the opportunity for great drama and great comedy because of the intense activity.'' ``The deepest humor is when you laugh in the presence of death. When I was in Vietnam some of my friends were killed, but we still laughed. That's how you survived. We're going for that kind of humor.'' The series stars Dana Delany as nurse Colleen McMurphy, Chloe Webb as singer Laurette Barber and Nan Woods as Red Cross worker Cherry White. Few series have looked at women at war. ``Broadside'' in 1964-65 was more or less the distaff side of ``McHale's Navy.'' ``Operation Petticoat'' was a brief show in 1977-78 about Army nurses aboard a pink submarine in World War II. There was ``M-A-S-H,'' of course, with famous nurse Margaret Houlihan, but the viewpoint on the nurses in Korea was strictly male. ``You meet these women and you get enthusiastic about them,'' said Broyles. ``They went there to serve, not to kill. They went there to help their fellow man. I don't want to sound too pretentious, but that's what these women did. We've got a wealth of stories about them. One of our writers, Susan Rhinehart, was in the Army in Vietnam.'' Broyles and Young worked with women who had served in Vietnam, who helped not only with the scripts but with the sets. The movie was filmed in Hawaii and Indian Dunes, an area north of Los Angeles, where the sets for the R-and-R area and hospital were built. Broyles, 43, was a combat Marine lieutenant in Vietnam in 1969 and returned in 1984 as a writer looking for material for his book ``Brothers in Arms: A Journey from War to Peace.'' He was one of the first combat veterans to return. ``I wanted to meet the people I had fought against,'' he said. Broyles founded Texas Monthly magazine in 1972 with Michael Levy. Later, they bought New West magazine and changed the name to California. From there Broyles went to Newsweek as editor-in-chief in 1982. He stayed with the magazine for two years. Broyles had suggested the concept of the television series to Scott Kaufer, vice president of development at Warner Bros. Television. Kaufer had worked with Broyles as an editor on California magazine. ``Then John came in as executive producer,'' said Broyles. ``He has an extensive knowledge of Vietnam _ and he's never been there. We worked together on the pilot and he wrote the script.''
AP881117-0188 	X	Jason Epstein, the editorial director at Random House, was named the winner Thursday of the National Book Awards Medal, a new honor ``for distinguished contribution to American letters.'' Epstein has been an editor at Random House for 30 years, working with such authors as W.H Auden, Vladimir Nabokov, Norman Mailer, Gore Vidal and E.L. Doctorow. The award was conceived to honor ``someone long connected with books who has had an extraordinary and permanent impact on American letters,'' said Roger Stevens, chairman of the board of the National Book Awards Inc. Epstein, 60, founded Anchor Books, the first American quality paperback line, when he was a 24-year-old editor at Doubleday. During a 1963 newspaper strike, he founded the New York Review of Books, which now has a circulation of 150,000. In 1982, he started The Library of America _ a series of uniform editions of books by America's greatest writers. Epstein was chosen by the board of directors of the National Book Awards Inc. The award, which carries a $10,000 cash prize, will be presented at the Nov. 29 National Book Awards dinner, when winners of the fiction and non-fiction awards will be announced.
AP900323-0247 	X	Gold futures prices tumbled to 4{-month lows Friday on New York's Commodity Exchange amid heavy European selling as the dollar resumed its advance against most other major currencies. On other commodity markets, silver also retreated; grains and soybeans fell; energy future advanced; and livestock and meat futures were mixed. Gold futures settled $5.30 to $5.60 lower with the contract for delivery in April at $389.40 a troy ounce, the lowest settlement for a near-month gold contract since Nov. 10. Silver futures ended 4.1 cents to 4.7 cents lower in New York with March at $5.043 a troy ounce. Analysts said buying interest in gold has faded as prices have skidded from near $430 an ounce over the past six weeks. April gold fell by $11.50 in this week alone. Gold is traded in dollars on the world market, so a stronger dollar makes the metal more expensive in terms of other currencies, discouraging foreign buying. But analysts said gold's decline in the face of global political and economic uncertainty suggests other factors are also at play. Gold traditionally has been viewed as a safe haven for investors during times of inflation and political crises such as the current showdown between the Soviet Union and the breakaway Lithuanian republic. But instead of buying gold, international investors have shunned the metal, preferring to buy U.S. dollars. ``The dollar is becoming the safe haven,'' said John Jonat, a precious-metals trader with Deak International Inc. William O'Neill, research director with Elders Futures Inc., said the gold market ignored a bevy of traditionally bullish developments during the week, including rising U.S. retail prices, predictions for high inflation in Britain, a sharp drop Thursday in the stock market and the increasingly tense Lithuanian situation. At the same time, the dollar has surged in value. ``You can see that the focus here is on the dollar more than anything else,'' O'Neill said. Soybean futures prices fell substantially on the Chicago Board of Trade on profit-taking prompted in part by beliefs that Brazilian soy exports may resume soon. Grain futures prices fell modestly. Exports of Brazilian soybean meal and oil have been on hold this week while the government implements economic reforms aimed at halting runaway inflation in the South American nation. Wheat futures settled 1 cent to 4{ cents lower with May at $3.56} a bushel; corn futures were \ cent to 1{ cents lower with May at $2.58{ a bushel; oats were 1\ cents to 2 cents lower with May at $1.47} a bushel; and soybeans were 5 cents to 7 cents lower with May at $5.98 a bushel. Petroleum futures advanced in technically inspired trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled 7 cents to 39 cents higher with May at $20.39 a barrel; heating oil was .45 cent to .70 cent higher with April at 55.46 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .15 cent to 1.56 cents higher with April at 57.66 cents a gallon. Expectations for stronger cash markets next week prompted buying of livestock futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Pork bellies ended mixed ahead of the Agriculture Department's monthly cold-storage report, which showed a lower-than-expected amount of pork bellies in commercial freezers as of Feb. 28. Belly prices are expected to rise in reaction to the report when trading resumes Monday. Live cattle futures settled .20 cent lower to .38 cent higher with April at 77.20 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .08 cent lower to .22 cent higher with March at 82.65 cents a pound; live hogs were .05 cent to .73 cent higher with April at 53.75 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .58 cent lower to .50 cent higher with March at 50.87 cents a pound.
AP900305-0026 	X	Atlantis' astronauts marveled at the joys of spaceflight after swooping safely to Earth and ending a classified but not-so-secret shuttle mission that put a $500 million spy satellite in orbit. ``As one of the rookies on board, I just say, `Wow! What a fantastic experience,''' the pilot, Air Force Col. John Casper, said after the shuttle touched down Sunday on a dry lake bed runway in the Mojave Desert. NASA crews today were to prepare Atlantis for a piggyback jet ride home to Florida's Kennedy Space Center on Saturday. Preliminary inspection showed 62 of the shuttle's heat-shield tiles sustained ``dings,'' NASA spokeswoman Lisa Malone said. The shuttle made a fiery descent through the atmosphere, touching down at 10:08 a.m. PST in a landing closed to the public but open to invited guests and journalists. The five astronauts made it to California just ahead of winds and bad weather that could have delayed the landing. Their launch from Cape Canaveral, Fla., on Wednesday was delayed five times by weather, a computer glitch and a sore throat suffered by the shuttle commander, Navy Capt. John O. Creighton. ``I probably had the world's most famous cold,'' he said. Ground-to-shuttle communications were blacked out during the flight, the 34th by a shuttle and the sixth dedicated to the Pentagon. About 4{ hours after landing, Casper, Creighton, Navy Lt. Cmdr. Pierre Thuot, Air Force. Col. Richard Mullane and Marine Lt. Col. David Hilmers said goodbye to 100 NASA employees and friends at Edwards Air Force Base. Then the astronauts rode two jets home to Houston, where they were greeted by 200 cheering spectators. Sources speaking on condition of anonymity said the astronauts Thursday deployed a satellite to snoop on much of the world, including the Soviet Union, by taking highly detailed photographs and eavesdropping electronically. A network of amateur astronomers reported seeing both the shuttle and the satellite speeding overhead. The shuttle triggered characteristic twin sonic booms close to its landing strip, but police over a wide area of Southern California reported a lack of the usual calls from citizens who mistake the noise for earthquakes. That suggests the shuttle flew an unusual route as it crossed the coast at a point NASA would only say was somewhere north of Los Angeles. ``We did something that was important for the country,'' Creighton said. ``Everything went very well. We enjoyed doing it.'' He also joked about the secrecy, telling the Houston crowd: ``Here I'd thought we'd sneak in in the middle of the night and nobody would know we were back.'' Unable to discuss mission details, the astronauts gushed about traveling in space. ``All the preparations, all the discussions with the guys and girls that have gone before me just couldn't quite prepare me for what ascent is like,'' Thuot said. ``I was in awe.'' Mullane, who previously announced he would retire after this flight, said wistfully: ``I will be sitting there and watch space shuttles fly into space, and I'll envy that.'' The next shuttle flight is set for April 12, when Discovery is to begin a five-day mission to deploy the $1.55 billion Hubble Space Telescope.
AP900403-0078 	X	A military training plane crashed into a reservoir Tuesday during an exercise, and both the instructor and pilot were killed, the air force reported. The B-34 trainer crashed into the Tsengwen reservoir in Tainan, southern Taiwan, at about 11:30 a.m., the air force said in a brief statement. An air force official said an instructor and the pilot were the only people on board. Tainan is 185 miles south of Taipei. The cause of the accident was being investigated.
AP880316-0168 	X	It was ``an act of God'' that brought two love-struck bulls together with the cows next door, says a man accused of negligence for failing to keep them apart. The bulls were unexpectedly freed from their pen when a tree limb felled by a storm crushed the fence enclosing them. They headed for Maggie and Blackbird, two pure-bred cows awaiting artificial insemination by a $770,000, prize-winning Angus bull named Broadway. Since the bulls, aged 9 and 13 months, may have beaten Broadway's time with the cows, the cows' owners were advised to wait 60 to 90 days before artificial insemination, to make sure Broadway was the father. Though this was done, the owners are suing Kirk Hardin, caretaker of the bulls and cows, for $39,000, accusing him of negligence in not keeping the guys and gals apart. Lonnie Pembrook, owner of Pembrook Cattle Co. near Fairview, and Tom Young, a New Jersey businessman, each owned a half-interest in Blackbird. Pembrook owns Maggie. Hardin, a specialist in artificial insemination and embryo transfer techniques, contends the fence mishap, in the fall of 1986, was an ``act of God'' that could not have been prevented or foreseen. The trial began Monday before a Payne County jury, and testimony ended Tuesday. Closing arguments are scheduled Friday. After the artificial insemination took place, the embryos were frozen, according to testimony. Pembrook picked up the frozen embryos in October, but there was no testimony on whether the embryos had since been placed in host cows.
AP881005-0107 	X	A woman who was hospitalized after she took an overdose of pills during a break in a foreclosure hearing on her family's farm also was troubled by death and illness in her family, authorities said. Westmoreland Hospital in Greensburg declined to release a condition report on Ida Depta, 48, of Alverton, but the family's attorney said she was in stable condition. Mrs. Depta was admitted Tuesday after swallowing unidentified pills from two prescription bottles in a courthouse hallway while foreclosure negotiations broke for lunch, said paramedic Harley Gray. The proceedings were then postponed. ``She stated to us that all she wants to do is to join her mom at the cemetery,'' said Deputy Sheriff Eric Sinclair. ``She's just upset over her mom, her brother is dying of cancer and the possible loss of the farm.'' Witnesses said Mrs. Depta's 18-year-old daughter, Julie, was able to remove some of the pills from her mother's mouth. The foreclosure, filed in 1985 by ITT Financial Services of Greensburg, involves a $111,251 debt by Mrs. Depta and her husband, Joseph Depta Jr., on a family dairy farm in Westmoreland County. The fact that she took the pills in front of other people ``tells me she wasn't so much trying to kill herself as she was asking for help,'' Ned Nakles Jr., the family's attorney, said today. According to Nakles and court documents, the foreclosure hearing was the latest in a series of woes for the family. Mrs. Depta's mother died on Aug. 24. Depta was injured in a 1984 traffic accident and has since been unable to work, which cut into the farm's income. The family also lost 18 cows when a cow bought from a supplier had a contagious disease that spread through the herd. The Deptas have taken legal action against the supplier.
AP880730-0054 	X	Nine Kurdish guerrillas and a police officer were killed Saturday in a clash in the southeastern province of Diyarbakir, the semi-official Anatolia News Agency reported. The guerrillas were believed to be members of the outlawed Kurdish Labor Party, which wants to set up a Marxist state in parts of eastern and southeastern Turkey, Anatolia reported. It did not elaborate on the clash. More than 900 civilians and security personnel and about the same number of insurgents have been killed since the rebels started hit-and-run attacks in 1984, official reports say. Ethnic Kurds make up about one-fifth of Turkey's population of 52 million.
AP900714-0088 	X	Mikhail S. Gorbachev has succeeded in reshaping the Communist Party in his own centrist image to brace for a challenge from workers and radicals who are quitting the party to organize an opposition. The 28th congress of the Communist Party, billed in advance as a bastion of hard-liners, closed Friday after dumping most of the Old Guard. The delegates also accepted much of Gorbachev's plan to transfer decision-making from the party to the government _ which he also heads. But the government faces increasing discontent, especially among workers, as well as ethnic unrest that is shredding the country at the edges. The struggle intensified Wednesday, when coal miners across the country staged a one-day protest strike and urged workers to leave the party. The miners also are organizing an independent trade union to press demands that the government resign and that all Communist Party assets be nationalized and distributed to rival political groups. Disgruntled workers might flock to the banner of Boris N. Yeltsin, who sent a shock through the Kremlin Thursday by walking out of the Communist congress, quitting the party. He said his first loyalty was to his new job, president of Russia, by far the largest of the 15 Soviet republics. Other leading reformers followed Yeltsin out of the party, including the new mayors of Moscow and Leningrad, the biggest Soviet cities. Despite the split in the party, the first since 1921, Gorbachev was jovial Friday as he closed the two-week Communist congress, which many had predicted would be dominated by hard-liners. Instead, Gorbachev scored a sweeping victory, removing his leading hard-line critic, Yegor K. Ligachev, from the Politburo. He also won approval of a restructuring of top party bodies to transfer power to the government. The danger for Gorbachev is that central authorities could lose touch with the people. The people, in turn, are using Gorbachev's democratic reforms to win control of legislatures throughout the country and challenge central government and party bodies. The atmosphere was tense in Moscow before the national party congress because it followed harsh criticism of Gorbachev's performance by traditionalists at a congress of party members in the Russian republic. Ligachev led the attack, urging Gorbachev to relinquish the top party job if he retained the national presidency. Ligachev complained that the party Politburo, the body that traditionally has ruled the Soviet Union, had been excluded from discussions of economic reform. Gorbachev had instead steered the program through the newly created Presidential Council. The mood was so foreboding that Yeltsin and other reformers recommended postponing the national congress. But the workers and reformers took the offensive. Nine minutes into the first session, miner Vladimir I. Bludov demanded that Gorbachev and other leaders resign. Gorbachev brushed aside the suggestion, noting that the congress was due to elect the general secretary, the Politburo and the Central Committee. He also told delegates that senior party leaders opposed his proposal to expand the Politburo from 12 to 30 members and to create a new deputy party leader's post to direct day-day-affairs. The congress was the stormiest since 1921, when the party faced armed uprisings from angry workers and sailors, and the most momentous since 1956, when Nikita S. Khrushchev denounced the late dictator Josef V. Stalin. The warmest applause was for Ligachev's warning that anti-Communist forces were gaining strength. But his tone was milder than at the Russian Communist Party congress, and he did not repeat his call for Gorbachev to relinquish the party leadership. Other hard-liners tempered their rhetoric and, together with moderates, drew together under Gorbachev. Many said that although they objected to one man heading the party and the government simultaneously, he was the only person capable of holding the party together. Gorbachev engineered his election as chairman of the committee drafting new party rules. Working behind the scenes, he revived his plans to restructure the party leadership. The congress voted to expand the Central Committee from 249 to 412 members, most of them centrists like Gorbachev. The delegates also approved a Gorbachev plan that drastically cut the Politburo's power, doubling its size and including the party heads of the 15 republics _ a move designed to ease ethnic tension. Moreover, he eliminated the Old Guard. Of the 24 Politburo members, only Gorbachev and his newly elected deputy Vladimir Ivashko remain from the former group. Only Gorbachev has been a member of the body more than eight months.
AP881207-0100 	X	Nov. 30 Asbury Park (N.J.) Press on the rise in air fares: The nation's major airlines almost in unison decided ... to charge more for their services. Out went most discounted ... fares and in came ticket price increases of up to 30 percent. Since deregulation, competition has led to major mergers and the demise of more than 100 small airlines. Uncle Sam has done little to stand in the way of acquisitions that have placed control of two-thirds of all domestic flights in the hands of eight carriers, several of which also control airports and reservation systems. The round of fare increases and rising prices in other industries may be just the beginning _ unless the government more vigorously enforces antitrust laws.
AP900110-0242 	X	Two major newspapers are fighting a request for a gag order by Eastern Airlines' creditors, who seek to stop press leaks in the beleaguered airline's 10-month-old bankruptcy proceeding. The latest tangle in the Eastern saga pits the creditors committee against The New York Times and Dow Jones & Co., publisher of the Wall Street Journal, and centers on unauthorized disclosure of creditor opinions. If U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland grants the creditor committee request, violators could be held in contempt of court. The Times and Dow Jones say a gag order would violate First Amendment guarantees and prevent reporting on a story in which much of the information has been derived from tips and leaks. Attorneys for the Times and Dow Jones have sent letters to Lifland, who is scheduled to hear the case Jan. 30. The Times has filed legal briefs. Dow Jones expects to do so by the Jan. 15 deadline, spokesman Roger May said Tuesday. Eastern workers struck last March in an emotional walkout that almost immediately sent the moneylosing airline into bankruptcy court. Pilots and flight attendants quit the strike in November but Machinists union members remain out. The pilots, Machinists and flight attendants unions, who are represented on the creditors' committee, plan to support the panel's position, union attorneys said. Eastern also will support the creditors' request to the court, Eastern spokesman Robin Matell said from the airline's headquarters in Miami. All creditors committee members agreed last spring to keep information discussed by the panel confidential. In their documents, the Times and Dow Jones said courts must follow specific guidelines before restraining media access in a case. Their attorneys argue that the creditors' request doesn't meet those guidelines. ``The proposed order would, without any showing of need, judicially silence hundreds of potential speakers and would undoubtedly deprive the public of informed views perhaps at odds with the `party line' of the (creditors) committee itself,'' the Times says in its brief. ``It crosses all of the established barriers to prior restraint.'' The Times also argues that the creditors' request would be ineffective and unenforceable, and suggests the news leaks haven't come from the creditors committee. In addition to the Air Line Pilots Association, the Machinists and the Transport Workers Union, other members of the creditors' committee include: Airbus Industrie, the European aircraft consortium; General Electric Co.; Boeing Co.; United Technologies Credit Corp.; Rolls-Royce Credit Corp.; Marriott Corp.; and AT&T Communications.
AP901008-0004 	X	Secretary of State James A. Baker III is switching back to Cold War-era language in an effort to defeat a House move to cut off U.S. aid to anti-communist rebels in Angola. In a private memo he sent recently to House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R-Ill., Baker said ending aid to the Angolan rebels would derail peace negotiations ``and would be a vote for more killing, more stalemate and more suffering.'' This is ``the absolutely worst time'' to halt the aid, Baker said. The United States has been providing covert aid to the UNITA rebels in the southwest African country since 1986, but congressional sentiment against continued assistance seems to be increasing. At stake is a reported $60 million for the rebels in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. The issue could go to the House floor this week. Critics of administration policy contend that more aid to the rebels will only prolong a conflict that has lasted 15 years and caused immense human suffering. They also point out that well over half the 50,000 Cuban troops in Angola have gone home. The rest will be out in less than nine months. One amendment before the House would cut off all U.S. aid to UNITA unless President Bush declares that vital national security interests are at stake. Another would require an aid cutoff unless Bush certifies that the Soviet Union or third parties are continuing to send weapons to the leftist government in Luanda. U.S. aid also could be restored if Angola refused to continue peace negotiations with UNITA in good faith. Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos has said his government will halt all weapons imports if UNITA does the same. He also has said he is committed to instituting a multi-party democratic system in Angola. The Angola issue features a curious mixture of Soviet-American competition and cooperation. On one hand, Moscow and Washington have been arming opposite sides. On the other, Soviet and American representatives were present for the first time at the most recent negotiating session between Angolan officials and UNITA envoys. Four rounds of peace talks have been held in Lisbon and a fifth is scheduled there for later this month. Another anomaly is that the United States, although it does not recognize the Angolan government, is that country's largest trading partner because of oil purchases. UNITA leader Jonas Savimbi was in Washington last week, making his case for continued U.S. aid. He agrees with the administration that U.S. aid has forced the Angolan government to the bargaining table and that a cutoff could put his goal of a cease-fire and free elections beyond reach. Baker concurs. In his memo to Michel, a copy of which was made available to The Associated Press, Baker said an aid suspension would undercut those in the Angolan government who want to negotiate and ``strengthen the hand of hardliners who want to continue the bloodshed.'' Angola's United Nations ambassador, Manuel Pedro Pacavira, counters by saying that continued aid to UNITA can no longer be justified because of the toll of 15 years of warfare. ``Our people have suffered enough,'' Pacavira has said. ``More than 50,000 people are amputees, most of them women and children, and more than 800,000 civilians face starvation resulting from the combination of war and drought. This is the legacy of war, a legacy we can change now.''
AP900528-0106 	X	The independent-minded Swedes are softening their opposition to joining the European Community, but the question of political union remains a stumbling block, politicians and analysts said. Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson, in an article published Sunday, said neutral Sweden must remain outside the EC's ranks if the trading bloc forms a political union. Carlsson said control over foreign policy was the only major question barring Sweden from EC membership. Even the dissolution of the European power blocs, NATO and the Warsaw Pact, would not persuade Sweden to relinquish its neutrality, he wrote in the Dagens Nyheter daily. Sweden has relaxed many of the restrictions of its tightly controlled economy in the last two years to adapt to European conditions. Major Swedish companies also have merged or signed cooperation deals with European companies to protect themselves when the EC dismantles its internal commercial barriers in 1992. Sweden belongs to the six-nation European Free Trade Association, which is negotiating for commercial links with the 12-nation EC. The package would unite the two into an 18-member European Economic Space accord. But Swedish businessmen and the political opposition complain that the idea would bind the EFTA countries to the EC as a junior partner with no decision-making voice. An opinion poll conducted by the respected SIFO organization showed 51 percent of those asked were in favor of seeking EC membership, compared with 48 percent a year ago. The poll had a three percent margin of error, meaning that the change was insignificant. But the number of respondents who opposed asking for EC membership fell to 21 from 25 percent, perhaps indicating a trend, said SIFO analyst Alf Sjostrom. The rest were undecided. ``We have seen from other polls which we have done that opinion in Sweden is more positive to the EC,'' said Sjostrom. But the polls also showed that most Swedes don't know how EC membership would affect them, he said. Danish Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, speaking in a Stockholm news conference, said Sweden should not consider neutrality an obstacle to seeking EC membership. Denmark, once an EFTA member, is the only Scandinavian country in the EC. ``I see a common foreign policy where there is consensus,'' Ellemann-Jensen said. ``We can work to improve the preconditions for reaching consensus.'' He cautioned that Sweden could not influence EC policy unless it were a full member of the trading bloc. ``We do not want non-members to take part in the decision-making process. It is unthinkable to have far-reaching agreemens that undermine the (EC) integrity and process of decisions,'' he said. Swedish opposition leader Carl Bildt, of the Moderate party, also said the policy of neutrality should not be allowed to exclude Sweden from the EC. ``It is impossible to conduct our neutrality policy as if the Cold War still existed,'' Bildt said. ``It is obvious that we would participate in the cooperation among Europe's democracies.''
AP900601-0111 	X	Barbara Bush, in a commencement speech clouded by controversy over women's roles in modern American life, exhorted Wellesley College graduates today to put friends and family first in their lives, whatever careers they pursue. She was joined at the women's college graduation by Raisa Gorbachev, who delivered her own words of advice to the 575 graduates and nearly 5,000 other guests gathered inside a white tent on this sylvan campus. Even as the first ladies arrived, some of the seniors who protested the choice of President Bush's homemaker wife as their commencement speaker fired off a new letter urging Mrs. Bush to ``take a definitive and vocal stand'' on abortion rights and other issues. Copies were placed on each of the chairs inside the tent. Mrs. Bush sounded the same themes she usually discusses at commencements, but acknowledged with a joke the controversy over her appearance. ``I know your first choice for today was Alice Walker, known for `The Color Purple,''' she said. ``Instead you got me, known for the color of my hair,'' said the woman George Bush affectionately calls the Silver Fox. Mrs. Gorbachev, dressed in a gray suit rather than the traditional gown worn by commencement speakers, told the graduates that women ``have our special mission.'' ``Always, even in the most cruel and troubled times, women have had the mission of peacemaking, humanism, mercy and kindness,'' she said. ``And if people in the world today are more confident of a peaceful future we have to give a great deal of credit for that to women.'' The lone note of discord came during the playing of the Soviet national anthem when a handful of protesters held up a banner that read, ``Free the Baltics.'' Mrs. Bush urged the women to ``cherish your human connections, your relationships with friends and family.'' ``You will never regret not having passed one more test, not winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a friend, a child or a parent,'' she said. Closing with a device she has used before, Mrs. Bush said, ``Somewhere out in this audence may even be someone who will one day follow in my footsteps and preside over the White House as the president's spouse. I wish him well!'' ``The controversy ends here, but our conversation is only beginning,'' she said. Prior to the speech, Peggy B. Reid and Susana R. Cardenas had their new broadside waiting on each of the chairs. Cardenas was one of the main organizer's of the petition drive in April protesting the choice of Mrs. Bush as commencement speaker. ``We ask you, Barbara Bush, as a concerned mother and as a symbol of service to others, to take a definitive and vocal stand on the following critical issues that shape the lives of women in the United States,'' they said. The issues include the ``deterioration of women's reproductive rights''; passage of a family and medical leave act that President Bush has threatened to veto, and affordable day care. Some 150 students signed a petition in April questioning whether the president's homemaker wife was a suitable model of female accomplishment. Mrs. Bush, a college dropout, tendered her invitation to Raisa Gorbachev _ a philosophy Ph.D. and former university lecturer _ before the Wellesley students mounted their protest. Mrs. Bush, who turns 65 on June 12, dropped out of Smith College in 1944 in her sophomore year to marry her teenage sweetheart, George Bush, then a torpedo-bomber pilot for the Navy. Before returning to Washington in mid-afternoon, the first ladies were expected to take a driving tour of downtown Boston with a stop at the Boston Public Gardens and a meeting with about 30 students from the Mathers School, the oldest public school.
AP900901-0049 	X	A motorist who was stopped early today on suspicion of drunken driving grabbed an officer's gun, wounding the officer and a second policeman before shooting himself to death, authorities said. Pembina County Sheriff's Deputy Miles Nelson stopped the suspect on a possible charge of driving under the influence shortly after 1 a.m., according to Deputy Cal Cluchie. An ``altercation'' occurred in which the man took Nelson's service handgun and shot him, Cluchie said. Nelson managed to call for assistance as the man fled. Cavalier Police Chief James Johnson, responding to the call, was also wounded as he attempted to stop the man, Cluchie said. The suspect was later found nearby with a fatal gunshot wound, apparently self-inflicted, he said. Nelson was listed in critical condition at the United Hospital in Grand Forks, and Johnson is listed in stable condition at Pembina County Memorial Hospital. No other details were immediately available. Cavalier is located about 15 miles south of the Canadian border in northeastern North Dakota.
AP901017-0109 	X	The Judds, an award-winning mother-daughter country music duo, will call it quits at the end of their current concert tour, they announced Wednesday. Naomi, 44, will retire from performing due to hepatitis, which was diagnosed 10 months ago. Wynonna, 26, will start a solo career with an album tentatively slated for a spring 1992 release. ``I have always told Wy and our fans the only thing that could stop me from this career that I so desperately love would be my health,'' Naomi said. ``Unfortunately, that has happened.'' Their current tour is booked through Nov. 4 at Philadelphia, but RCA spokesman Greg McCarn said additional dates were certain to be set. ``I will miss touring and the daily interplay with our fans,'' said Naomi, who said she will continue writing songs. The mother and daughter announced their decision in a tearful news conference at an empty Music Row building that formerly housed RCA Records and where the duo auditioned seven years ago. The Judds were voted duo of the year for the third straight year Oct. 8 by the Country Music Association. In their acceptance remarks, both fought back tears as they credited each other. Their hit records over their six-year career include ``Grandpa,'' ``Mama He's Crazy,'' ``Why Not Me,'' ``Rockin' With the Rhythm'' and their current ``Born to Be Blue.'' Four of their eight albums have sold 1 million copies: ``Why Not Me,'' ``Rockin' With the Rhythm,'' ``Heartland'' and ``The Judds' Greatest Hits.'' Wynonna said her first solo recording sessions would be after the current tour winds up. ``The decision to begin a solo career has all happened so fast because of Mom's health that I have not put a lot of thought into it,'' she said. ``My main concern right now is Mom's welfare. However, I have the complete support of my manager, my mother and others around me. I certainly will give it my best shot.'' Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver. Symptoms include weakness, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting and jaundice. Wynonna announced in July that she is engaged to songwriter Tony King of Nashville. Naomi, a former nurse, married gospel music singer Larry Strickland in May 1989. She was divorced in 1977 from her first husband.
AP900212-0149 	X	A leadership meeting of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's Likud bloc broke down in chaos and shouts of anger Monday after Shamir called for a vote of confidence in his plan for Palestinian elections. Shamir stormed out of the session of the Likud Central Committee after getting into a shouting match with his hard-line party rival, Trade Minister Ariel Sharon, who said he would resign to protest Shamir's policies. Shamir later claimed in a radio interview that he had received a large show of support. The chaotic results left the already stalled Middle East peace process in even worse shape and raised doubts about the future of Shamir's fragile coalition Cabinet. Leaders of Likud's coalition partner, the center-left Labor party, met Monday night and decided not to make any moves that would likely break up the government as long as there is a chance for peace. But a senior Labor official said the party would demand a new Cabinet vote on the peace initiative and could leave the government unless it got backing. Some Labor members demanded that the party quit the coalition immediately because Israel's peace initiative has been compromised. ``I don't think we can continue to live in this marriage,'' Yossi Beilin, a top aide to Labor leader Shimon Peres, told The Associated Press. In Washington, President Bush said Sharon's resignation could suit U.S. policy if it led to progress in the stalled peace process. ``Mr. Shamir was a proponent of these talks, and if this clears the way for the talks to go forward, that would (be) in keeping with U.S. policy,'' Bush said at a White House news conference. Monday's meeting of Likud's Central Committee contained two surprises. The first was Sharon announcing his resignation. The second was the chaotic ending, which came after polls predicted a victory for the prime minister over his hard-line rivals. The meeting broke down when Shamir called for a vote of confidence at the end of a speech in which he essentially bent to the political demands of Sharon and his supporters. ``Do you accept my proposal? Let us vote,'' Shamir shouted. But Sharon, who later claimed Shamir had broken an agreement to delay the vote until the end of the debate, began shouting into a microphone for a vote on his own stands. Hundreds of delegates raised their hands amid the chaos, and both sides claimed they won. ``I received a decisive, massive majority,'' Shamir said moments after leaving the meeting of Likud's 3,085-member Central Committee in a circle of security guards. ``It was very clear that our proposals were accepted,'' Sharon argued later in a radio interview. Sharon convened the meeting as a challenge to Shamir's leadership and his peace plan, which envisages a limited Palestinian autonomy in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. The Likud hawks say the plan gives the Palestinians too many concessions. Opening the session, Sharon surprised even his close supporters with his offer to resign from the Cabinet. ``My decision to resign from the government is in order to continue the difficult struggle for our national goals ... endangered as a result of policies of the present government,'' he said. As he spoke, most delegates rose to their feet, and several hundred began chanting ``Arik, Arik'' _ Sharon's nickname. Shamir tried to seize the initiative with an emotional speech that embraced most of his rivals' stands: refusing to allow Arab residents of annexed east Jerusalem to vote in the proposed elections, and demanding an end to the 26-month Palestinian uprising before peace could be negotiated. ``We cannot imagine real political negotiations and autonomy as long as attacks and violence continue,'' Shamir said. Speaking later on army radio, Shamir indicated he would accept the trade minister's resignation, saying: ``It seems natural that Sharon resigns from a government whose policies he opposes in all its aspects.'' However, the prime minister and his chief supporters said the chaotic meeting would not lead to a split in the party. ``This is not the end of Likud but the end of those who wanted to break Likud down,'' said Environment Minister Ronnie Milo. But Moshe Zorenstein, a delegate, described the meeting as ``being at our own funeral.''
AP900812-0010 	X	All week long the authorities of this town of 7,000 have struggled to contain an ocean of roaring motorcycles and tattooed bikers wrapped in enough leather to outfit the women of Chicago with purses. On Friday, when the crowd had swelled to around 300,000, Police Chief Jim Bush faced one of his most serious challenges _ a showdown on Main Street between two motorcycle gangs. Luckily, the conflict broke off before knives were drawn. And Bush said the police involvement in cooling tempers was, shall we say, discreet. ``We didn't break anything up. We just kind of stood back,'' he said. The 50th Black Hills Motor Classic, with bikers from every state and dozens of countries, rattled toward its official close Sunday, and police in this Black Hills town near the Wyoming border were breathing many sighs of relief. Thursday night, a lead biker of the Outlaws motorcycle gang smiled at a police officer, cocked his finger like a pistol and gave him a little ``pow!'' It was a small gesture, more playful than menacing, but it signified some of the problems that Sturgis has had to cope with in putting on the world's largest motorcycle gathering. Sturgis, which normally has 10 officers, in 10 days has provided a year's worth of mayhem. Since Aug. 1, hundreds of law enforcement agents have issued 976 traffic tickets, given out 1,918 warnings, arrested 180 people for drunken driving and 61 others on drug charges. They also have handled 116 reported accidents, 65 involving injuries. The rally has been the scene of nine traffic-related deaths. Police shot to death an Australian man, and a North Dakota woman died of carbon monoxide poisoning. There have been a few non-fatal stabbings. Law officers interviewed members of the Outlaws and Hells' Angels Saturday night after one person was wounded in a shooting at a downtown bar and two people were stabbed after what witnesses described as a dispute between two motorcycle groups, Meade County State's Attorney Mike Jackley said.. The wounded were alive after the shooting at Gunner's Lounge and Casino and the stabbings near the Sooper Dooper grocery, but their conditions at a nearby hospital were not immediately available, he said. Bush said he was not surprised by the number of fatalities. ``I thought there would probably be more, I really did, with this many people,'' he said. The annual biker festival draws gangs such as the Hells' Angels, The Bandidos, and the Sons of Silence, as well as clubs sponsored by Christian groups and Alcoholics Anonymous. The late Malcolm Forbes was at last year's fest. A coroner's jury Friday ruled that three officers acted in the ``scope of their duty'' when they shot Trevor John Hansen, of Liverpool, Australia. Hansen allegedly lunged at them with a knife Tuesday. Police were responding to a report he had driven his 2-foot-long knife through the door of a house, broke in and held the knife under the nose of a resident. ``Aside from (the shooting), we have not seen anything really outside of what we ordinarily have seen,'' said state Attorney General Roger Tellinghuisen. ``Except it's on a larger scale. And that's to be expected. There are three times as many people here,'' Tellinghuisen said.
AP900919-0160 	X	NEW YORK - Seveny-nine New York Post workers decided to resign and take a buyout offered as part of a labor settlement to save the tabloid, union and newspaper officials said Wednesday. The paper had sought only 43 resignations from the 350-member Newspaper Guild as part of $19 million in union concessions owner Peter S. Kalikow said he needed to make the paper profitable. The 505,000-circulation paper has been losing $27 million a year. The Guild resignations mean the Post will lose close to 200 of its 960 workers. Agreements reached last week call for 100 forced resignations from the 263-member drivers union and five from the Post's 17 paper handlers. Guild members resigning include employees from editorial, advertising, circulation, and accounting. Post Editor Jerry Nachman said about 40 of the 79 resignations were from the editorial department. ``It's not a number I like, or I'm happy with,'' said Nachman. Members of the union had until 5 p.m. Wednesday to resign and collect full severance plus eight weeks shut down pay. Kalikow had improved the buyout offer before guild members voted Monday on concessions slashing their pay 20 percent as part of a four-day work week. The Guild had been the holdout among 11 unions that gave job and wage cuts sought by Kalikow. Kalikow had said he would shut down the 189-year-old paper if any one union refused the grant concessions. Kalikow said Tuesday that the concessions from unions and cuts in overhead and among the managerial staff will allow the paper to be profitable by Oct. 1. That would be the first profit since the 1970s. Among the 79 staffers to resign was sports columnist Peter Vecsey, who had previously told the newspaper he was leaving when his contract expired in November. He will write a twice-weekly sports column for USA Today. He also recently signed to be a reporter on NBC's NBA pre-game show, ``The Insiders.'' Peter Faris, Post vice president for editorial and administration, said Vecsey's resignation was ``divorced from the buyout scenario although as a Guild member he is availing himself of the opportunity.''
AP880512-0110 	X	The Senate today voted down an effort to ban most U.S. underground nuclear testing, rejecting claims by supporters of the ban that it would help stem the atomic arms race. The chamber voted 57-39 to kill the proposed ban as it worked through a Pentagon budget bill. ``We must maintain unquestionable confidence in our nuclear deterrent and our experts tell us that this requires continued testing,'' said Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-N.C., a chief opponent. Sen. Mark Hatfield, R-Ore., the sponsor of the ban, said, ``no other issue addresses so clearly the runaway technology which is the lifeblood of the arms race.'' The House has approved an underground test ban in its version of the defense bill, meaning the issue will have to be resolved by a House-Senate conference committee that will resolve differences between the two measures. The House passed its defense bill Wednesday and the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee said the U.S. military is ``stronger and more capable'' now than when President Reagan took office, despite Reagan's recurring complaints about not getting enough money for the Pentagon. ``By almost any measure, our armed services are better than they were in 1981,'' said Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis. ``The most dramatic increase is the quality of people, which is much, much better.'' Aspin commented shortly after the House voted 252-172 for a Pentagon budget, which will be the last defense budget of Reagan's eight-year presidency. House approval split along party lines, with majority Democrats supporting the bill and Republicans opposing it. Reagan didn't like it either, joining complaints by House Republicans that the bill unfairly restricts his arms control policies and Star Wars program. The House measure bans Star Wars tests that violate the so-called ``narrow'' interpretation of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty, and bars the purchase of any nuclear weapons that violate the numerical limits in the unratified 1979 SALT II nuclear arms treaty. The Senate, by a 51-45 margin, rejected an attempt Wednesday to add the SALT II restriction to its defense bill. Reagan opposes both restrictions and is also unhappy with the $3.5 billion approved by the House for the Strategic Defense Initiative, as Star Wars is formally known. The Senate voted Wednesday for $4.6 billion. Reagan wanted $4.8 billion for Star Wars next year, compared with the current SDI budget of $3.9 billion. Aspin said he couldn't understand the presidential complaints. ``I don't believe the president has any reason to be upset. I think it's a good bill. We gave the president a lot of what he wanted.'' Both the House and Senate bills authorize $299.5 billion worth of defense spending in the fiscal year starting Oct. 1, a slight reduction from the current $300 billion Pentagon budget. The measures would essentially freeze defense spending for a fourth straight year, following four large annual increases in Reagan's first term. No increases are likely in the future, Aspin predicted. ``I would guess that you're looking at perhaps a freeze, or maybe a decline of 1 or 2 percent, for the foreseeable future, which is the next three or four years, no matter who is elected president.'' Several factors will contribute to the reluctance to increase defense budgets, said Aspin. ``First, there are the worries about the federal budget deficit. Then second, you have the fact that the Soviets appear to the American public to be less threatening under Mikhail Gorbachev, so there's less a push because of fear. ``You also have the fact that there are other fears, like drugs,'' he said, noting that the House bill orders Reagan to use the U.S. military in the fight against illegal drug smuggling. ``In addition, there is a growing perception that national security depends on other things than simply military might, that it needs to include economic strength,'' he said. While the House measure restricts Reagan's arms control policies and Star Wars, it granted his proposals for a vast variety of weapons. That total includes 180 F-16 jet fighter planes, 84 F-A-18 jets, 42 F-15 jets, a dozen F-14 jets, three new Navy destroyers, two more attack submarines, one Trident missile-firing sub, the first of the new ``Seawolf'' class subs and 611 M-1 tanks. The Senate decision on Star Wars came as the chamber voted 50-48 against a deep reduction in the 5-year-old program. That vote defeated a proposal by Sen. Bennett Johnston, D-La., to reduce the SDI budget to about $3.8 billion and devote the extra $750 million to the space shuttle and a space station.
AP880926-0051 	X	Concern over the health of ailing Emperor Hirohito dampened trading today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while the dollar firmed against the Japanese yen. The 225-share Nikkei Stock Average gyrated through the day over concern for Hirohito, whose condition appeared to stabilize today after setbacks over the weekend. The Nikkei lost 59.17 points, or 0.22 percent, to close at 27,330.95 in dull trading. Volume on the first section was a light 550 million shares. Traders said investors were reluctant to take large positions because of fears the market might close temporarily upon Hirohito's passing, leaving them unable to respond to financial markets overseas. In addition, many traders cited the psychological impact of uncertainty over the health of any major world figure. Hirohito has reigned for nearly 62 years. Monday was also the last day Japanese brokerages could trade on their accounts for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, when most companies close their books. On the Tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar closed at 134.73 yen, up 0.26 yen from Thursday's close, the last day of trading. It opened at 134.80 yen and moved in a narrow range of 134.66-134.85 yen. Dealers attributed the dollar's strength to a reaffirmation over the weekend among monetary authorities from seven major countries. The Group of Seven met in West Berlin and decided to continue to coordinate economic policies targeting stable exchange rates and containing inflation. ``Following the outcome of the G-7 meeting, the market took it as an indication there will be no market intervention by the nation's central bank at the current exchange rate level,'' said a dealer at a major commercial bank in Tokyo, speaking anonymously.
AP881011-0283 	X	Consolidated Gold Fields PLC and Newmont Mining Corp. said they filed a federal suit Tuesday to block a $3.5 billion hostile buyout bid by a South African conglomerate, on grounds the offer violates federal securities and antitrust laws. The U.S. District Court suit was the latest action the companies have taken to thwart the overture by South African-controlled Minorco SA, which has offered $3.5 billion for the 70.6 percent of Consolidated Gold Fields it does not already own. London-based Gold Fields owns a 49.3 percent stake in Newmont. Gold Fields and New York-based Newmont last week asked President Reagan to block the takeover on national security grounds, contending a buyout would endanger U.S. access to strategic metals such as gold, platinum and zirconium. Gold Fields has asked the British government to review the bid because of the South African connection, and the South African government also is investigating the proposed acquisition. Named as defendants in the suit filed Tuesday were Anglo American Corp. of South Africa Ltd., De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., and Minorco. Luxembourg-based Minorco, which owns 29.4 percent of Gold Fields, is controlled by Anglo American and De Beers Consolidated Mines, the gold and diamond mining interests of the wealthy Oppenheimer family of South Africa. Anglo American and De Beers have said they would relinquish control of Minorco if the bid succeeds. Minorco has said it plans to sell Gold Fields' South African interests and Gold Fields' stake in Newmont if it acquires the company. The Gold Fields-Newmont suit contended the defendants had conspired to monopolize the gold market and that a successful acquisition likely would substantially lessen competition in that market. Gold Fields controls 8 percent of the world's gold production. It also produces rutile and zircon, which are raw materials for metals used in military aircraft and submarines. The suit claimed a takeover of Gold Fields by Minorco would give the South African syndicate control over a third of the world's gold market. The suit stated the Oppenheimer syndicate has major investments in companies that control more than 20 percent of the West's gold production, has interests controlling more than 50 percent of the free world's platinum production and has what it claimed the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation consider ``an absolute monopoly'' over the diamond business.
AP880414-0066 	X	The Honduran Congress began hearings on the deportation of a reputed drug baron to the United States that caused violent protests and forced the government to impose a state of emergency. The emergency decree was issued for Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula on April 8 after 2,000 demonstrators, enraged over the forced extradition of Juan Ramon Matta, burned the U.S. Consulate and U.S. Information Service office in the capital. The decree was lifted Wednesday after tension subsided. Police and soldiers arrested Matta in a pre-dawn raid on his Tegucigalpa home April 5 and deported him to the United States by way of the Dominican Republic the following day without a passport. The Honduran Constitution forbids the extradition of Honduran citizens. Matta, 43, a Honduran citizen, is being held at a maximum security federal prison in Marion, Ill., on drug trafficking charges. He also was wanted for questioning by U.S. authorities in connection with the 1985 torture-slaying in Mexico of U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique Camarena Salazar. Col. Leonel Riera Lunatti, commander of the public security forces, testified behind closed doors for over two hours on Wednesday before a congressional commission investigating the deportation. Riera Lunatti arrived at the legislative chambers surrounded by security guards and declined to comment to reporters. But Ramon Rufino Mejia, chairman of the hearing, said Riera Lunatti testified he had broken into Matta's home at the orders of superiors. Riera Lunatti stated the armed forces were responsible for the operation, Rufino Mejia said. Judge Saul Suazo, who issued the search warrant authorizing the break-in, also testified before the panel on Wednesday. Rufino Mejia said the commission planned to hear testimony from Ramualdo Bueso, interior and justice minister; Maj. Efrain Gutierrez, head of the government immigration department; Maj. Santiago Perdomo, director of aviation; and Col. Marco Antonio Chavez, chief of a local police district. The chairman refused to rule out the possibility the panel could summon President Jose Azcona Hoyo to testify. ``We have begun a serious investigation into the affair because we consider that no functionary, be he military or civilian, is above Honduran laws,'' Rufino Mejia said. The government lifted the emergency decree and restored full constitutional guarantees at 6 a.m. Wednesday in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, 125 miles to the north. Business, commerce and transportation operated normally. Five Hondurans died in the rioting last week. The U.S. Embassy, located in the same complex as the burned offices, was not damaged. Police detained at least 70 people believed involved in the attack, said Maj. Manuel Antonio Urbina, chief police spokesman. Honduras is a staunch U.S. ally, but some Hondurans protested the presence of U.S. soldiers in their country and joint U.S.-Honduran military exercises. Honduras was used as a base by U.S.-supported Contra rebels who fought the leftist Nicaraguan government until last month's signing of a cease-fire pact. Just before that agreement, the United States sent 3,200 soldiers to Honduras after Nicaraguan troops reportedly pursued Contras into Honduran territory.
AP901228-0069 	X	Vice President Dan Quayle cancelled a second round of golf at a California course today after being criticized for playing at the country club with an all-white membership. His office said he had been unaware of the controversy surrounding the Cypress Point Club. Quayle shot more than 18 holes Thursday at the course in Pebble Beach. Beach. The Professional Golfers Association in September ruled the club ineligible for the 1991 AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. ``I have a great concern about the vice president of the United States playing at Cypress Point and not being aware of the sensitivity of the issue that revolves around it,'' Monterrey County Supervisor Sam Karas said. Quayle couldn't be questioned for reaction because Secret Service agents kept reporters and photographers off the club's private grounds. But his office in Washington released a statement from Press Secretary David Beckwith, stating Quayle was ``unaware of the controversy surrounding the Cypress Point golf course. He has been assured the club does not discriminate and has never had a policy of discrimination.'' However, the statement said, ``The vice president is unwilling to leave any impression that he condones any form of discrimination. He has therefore canceled his round of golf today.'' Quayle is a member of the Burning Tree country club outside Washington, which has an all-male membership. He was returning to his skiing vacation in Colorado before returning to Washington on Saturday. Quayle will leave Saturday night for a New Year's visit to the troops in the Persian Gulf. Asked how Quayle could be unaware of the highly publicized controversy involving the club's banning from the national tournament, his chief of staff Bill Kristol said in a telephone interview: ``It proves he's not spending time reading the golf pages.'' An official who answered the telephone at the club's hotel, where Quayle was staying, said the staff had been instructed not to try to contact Quayle's party. Golfing with Quayle on Thursday were two Cypress Point Club members who are prominent officials in the Bush administration - Donald B. Rice, the Air Force secretary, and Ebersole Gaines, U.S. Ambasador to the Bahamas.
AP901113-0038 	X	The strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines this year swept across central islands today with 125 mph winds, killing at least one person, sinking numerous ships and forcing thousands to flee their homes. The navy said a merchant ship with 16 crew members was missing off Mindanao island and that 16 boats had sunk off Cebu island. Three sailors were reported missing in the Cebu sinkings. At least 17 people, including six Americans, were trapped on an oil rig off Palawan island after 68 other workers were evacuated, said Maj. Antonio Babijes, chief of the Manila Rescue Coordinating Center. He said officials asked U.S. Air Force and Navy authorities to assist in evacuating the rig after a rescue boat was forced back by rough seas. The rig is operated by Alcorn Production-Philippines Inc. The confirmed death occurred in the Panay island province of Capiz when a tree fell on a 10-year-old boy, a spokeswoman for the governor said. Typhoon Mike made landfall on Leyte island eary today and was by midday centered over Iloilo City on Panay island, about 290 miles southeast of Manila, the capital's weather bureau said. Senior forecaster Daniel Dimagiba said the storm's maximum sustained winds had weakened to 103 mph and that it was moving at 19 mph west-northwest after crossing Leyte, Cebu and Negros and hitting Panay islands. Cmdr. Ruben Lista, spokesman of the Philippine navy, said a distress call was received from the cargo ship Dona Roberta early today. The call said the ship was taking in water about 500 miles south of Manila, Lista said. It was the last radio contact with the ship, which was presumed to have sank, he added. In Cebu, Lista said, 16 vessels sank off the Cebu docks and six others ran aground. He said huge waves pushed a passenger ship into a navy patrol craft and another domestic ferry, sinking the three vessels. He said there were no reports if the vessels were had passengers at the time. Three navy utility crafts also sank nearby and three sailors were reported missing in two of the vessels, he added. On Negros island, a spokeswoman from the office of the governor of Negros Occidental province said about 9,500 people were forced to flee their homes in six towns. Officials said nearly 200 houses had been destroyed or damaged. The seas were dangerous to all types of vessels. Philippine Airlines canceled 59 domestic flights, but international flights were unaffected. The typhoon is the 14th to hit the Philippines this year. About 20 typhoons hit the country yearly. It was the strongest typhoon to come ashore here this year and the strongest to enter the country's waters since December, Dimagiba said. Mike struck Palau island over the weekend, toppling trees, devastating crops and battering buildings.
AP900710-0100 	X	Here is a look at the accomplishments of the 28th Communist Party congress after eight days, as well as what remains to be done: ACCOMPLISHMENTS: Mikhail S. Gorbachev was re-elected as party leader Tuesday in a one-sided race against Siberian strike leader Teimuraz Avaliani after seven others who were nominated backed out.
AP900330-0150 	X	A mental patient who walked away from a state hospital and randomly stabbed a 9-year-old girl to death at a street fair was found innocent by reason of insanity Friday. David R. Peterson, 38, lacked the capacity to conform his conduct to the requirements of the law, a three-judge Superior Court panel unanimously concluded in acquitting him of murder and escape charges. However, Dr. Donald R. Grayson, a state-commissioned psychiatrist who examined Peterson, said it would be ``a dreadful mistake in judgment'' ever to release him from a high-security psychiatric facility. At Peterson's arraignment last summer, an angry crowd yelled ``Kill him, kill him!'' when he was brought to court. But there were no such demonstrations Friday. The girl's parents, Catherine and Robert Short, and a handful of their closest friends were present for the brief reading of the verdict. They showed no emotion as the decision was announced, and declined to comment when they left the courthouse. The Shorts are planning to sue the state. Peterson walked off the grounds of Connecticut Valley Hospital last July 28. He took a bus three miles downtown, bought a hunting knife at a Main Street sporting goods shop and walked only about 100 yards before pouncing on 9-year-old Jessica Short. He picked his victim at random from a crowd of hundreds attending a sidewalk sale and fair. He stabbed her 34 times before stunned and horrified bystanders and police could pull him away. Judges James Higgins, Barry Schaller and Salvatore Arena, who began deliberations Wednesday afternoon, ordered Peterson committed to the custody of the state mental health commissioner for evaluation. He will be held at the Whiting Forensic Institute, the state's only maximum-security institution, at least until another court hearing to determine whether he should be confined or released. His attorney, public defender Christopher James, said Peterson is happy to be at Whiting because he feels safer there. Psychiatrists hired by both the prosecution and the defense testified during the trial that Peterson represents a chronic danger to society and is as dangerous as a mentally ill person can be to others. Peterson, a chronic paranoid schizophrenic with a history of mental illness and violence, has spent 15 of his past 20 years in mental institutions. In 1971 and again in 1988, he was found innocent by reason of insanity in stabbing attacks and ordered committed to state hospitals. In 1988, he was moved from Whiting to Connecticut Valley Hospital after doctors at both places said they believed he could be adequately supervised in a minimum-security setting, said the state Psychiatric Security Review Board. Peterson's attorney said the case shows that the board, which by law has the primary duty of protecting society, should seek the recommendations of outside experts rather than relying solely on information coming from the hospitals. About two hours before he killed the girl, Peterson had been screaming about pain in his legs and arms that he blamed on the medication he was taking. The psychiatrist hired by the defense said the patient should have been confined to his ward after the outburst because he had a history of psychotic delusions being accompanied by violence. Instead, Peterson was allowed to follow his normal routine and go out onto the hospital grounds without supervison, according to court testimony. Peterson told police he killed Miss Short to take revenge on his doctors because they wouldn't change his medication. He told psychiatrists he went downtown to take revenge on his ``enemies'' _ whites of European descent _ and had pictured himself as a soldier marching into battle.
AP900528-0077 	X	Kilauea Volcano destroyed the 153rd home of its seven-year eruption Monday and threatened at least two others in this lava-ravaged Hawaii Island community, authorities said. A house located north of the Kalapana Store and Drive-In and Mauna Kea Congregational Church burned at 6 a.m., Hawaii County civil defense spokesman Bruce Butts said. He said the half-mile-wide flow continued to move erratically. It was filling low spots in what remains of Kalapana and was not moving toward the ocean. At last report, lava was within 25 yards of the closest home.
AP880610-0206 	X	A panic-stricken 8-year-old girl concocted a story about two intruders after she accidentally killed her sister while playing with a gun, police said. The girl initially told police two men broke into a mobile home the family used as storage and shot her 10-year-old sister when the sister tried to call police, authorities said. Police launched a search Thursday for the intruders. Four hours later, the 8-year-old confessed she had found the .22-caliber revolver, and was playing with it when it discharged, Police Chief Richard Ausenbaugh said Thursday. The girl made up the story in panic and hid the weapon in the mobile home, he said. ``It's just an unfortunate, very, very tragic thing,'' Ausenbaugh said. ``She's just going to have to live with it for the rest of her life.'' He said no charges would be filed.
AP881230-0055 	X	A college lecturer was cleared of charges he made a bomb threat on an American Airlines flight after an 11-year-old boy admitted he wrote the note and left it on the aircraft, says an apologetic FBI. Charges against Peter W. Canning, a lecturer in literature at the University of California-Berkeley, were dropped Thursday after the boy told the FBI he wrote the note. Canning, 40, found the note on an American Airlines jetliner Tuesday, gave it to a flight attendant and was arrested by the FBI. The FBI's top New Mexico agent, Jim Nelson, said he ``regrets any inconvenience and embarassment suffered by Mr. Canning.'' ``However, the investigation fully warranted the arrest of Canning, which occurred after consulting with the U.S. attorney's office in Albuquerque,'' Nelson said. Canning, a Harvard doctoral candidate, could not be reached for comment because he was driving home to Berkeley when the charges were dropped by U.S. Magistrate Sumner G. Buell in Albuquerque. He had been released on his own recognizance the previous day. Canning had insisted all along that the note fell into his lap from his seat tray while lunch was being served on the flight from San Francisco to Dallas. He handed the note to a flight attendant, who notified the pilot. The plane was diverted to Albuquerque and was searched for about four hours with bomb-sniffing dogs. The boy came forward with his parents Thursday, and admitted writing the note during a flight to San Francisco earlier Tuesday, said FBI spokesman Douglas Beldon. The note was put on the pullout tray before it was stowed away, he said. The note said: ``Read this. There are guns pointed at you. If you want to live, read the letter underneath and do what it says. This is a bomb scare. Read this. PS If you do what the letter says, and have everyone else do it, you will live. PS If you don't, you are history!! There are bombs planted all over this airplane and there is a gun pointed at your head. Take your wallet and throw it in the aisle now.'' At the time of the arrest, federal agents said there were similarities between Canning's handwriting and the note. Agents determined that the boy sat in the seat later occupied by Canning, Beldon said. He said the U.S. attorney's office in San Francisco declined to prosecute the boy. Canning's attorney, Ray Twohig, had said the arrest resulted from FBI confusion. ``I'm glad they've cleared up their confusion,'' he said Thursday. Asked if the crash of a Pan Am jumbo jet in Scotland last week might have affected the way this case was handled, Twohig said: ``Sure, everybody was jumpy. ``I just hope that people who read about this and hear about this aren't discouraged from reporting things,'' Twohig said. Canning has said he almost withheld the note.
AP900509-0243 	X	SmithKline Beecham PLC, the newly merged health, household products and pharmaceuticals company, said Wednesday its first quarter profit jumped 42 percent because of the sale of certain businesses. SmithKline said that during the three months ended March 31 it netted $371 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with earnings of $261 million, or 20 cents, a year ago. Sales rose 19 percent to $2.15 billion from $1.8 billion. The results were the first the company reported on a quarterly basis since the merger of SmithKline Beckman Corp. and Beecham PLC in July 1989. Year-earlier figures were made available as if the merger had taken place at the beginning of 1989. SmithKline Beecham attributed the higher quarterly income largely to aset sales. It sold branded businesses such as Ambrosia, Bovril and Marmite food products as well as the Yardley-Lentheric cosmetics, raising around $493 million. The company said that it reduced its debt by $455 million during the first quarter. Its total debt stands at $2.5 billion, down from $4 billion a year ago. SmithKline Beecham Chairman Henry Wendt said that ``interest expense will decline significantly during the year, and the balance sheet will improve as we generate a high level of cash from operations and aggressively pursue debt reduction.'' The pound figures were converted at a rate of $1.65, which was provided by the company.
AP880430-0089 	X	President Reagan said today he would issue a fast veto of the trade bill and urged Congress to pass one that ``will assist, not impede, our dynamic economy.'' In a weekly radio address delivered from the Oval Office, Reagan said his objections to the bill ``range from rules on plant closing notifications to restrictions on exports.'' ``You can be sure that this bill is going to get a veto, but fast,'' the president said, adding that he would then propose an alternative measure. The president said the trade bill originally proposed in Congress contained many provisions to which the administration objected. ``Working with members of Congress, we managed to remove almost all of these bad provisions,'' he said. ``Unfortunately, however when it comes to safeguarding property, almost can never be good enough.'' ``The current legislation, despite all the hard work, still has provisions that threaten economic growth,'' the president said. ``These provisions are comprised mainly of demands for unnecessary, burdensome and costly regulation of private industry.'' He said all Congress ``has to do is drop the ruffles, frills and flourishes put there for the special interests, and we can have a trade bill, and have it soon.'' ``I urge the congressional leadership to schedule prompt action on a bill immediately after my veto is sustained,'' the president said. ``It is time to set aside the special interests and advance America's interests by passing trade legislation that will assist, not impede, our dynamic economy.'' @Following grafs embargoed for 1:06 p.m. EDT
AP880922-0126 	X	Voters' doubts about George Bush and Michael Dukakis are such that, despite Bush's recent strength in the presidential race, the debates between the two men will prove critical, analysts of a new poll suggested Thursday. ``We consider this contest still a very close one,'' said Andrew Kohut, president of the Gallup Organization, which conducted the poll for the Times Mirror Corp. The poll suggested that Bush has gained in the presidential race more by solidifying his support among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents than by siphoning off Democrats from Dukakis. ``He has performed in a way that has caused Republicans to come home,'' analyst Norman Ornstein said at a news conference where the poll results were released. Kohut said Bush ``has won the first round of this campaign and seized the momentum,'' but that support for both men was ``soft,'' with many people who expressed a preference saying they might switch to the opponent. Ornstein, of the American Enterprise Institute, said Bush was vulnerable on the Iran-Contra affair and on the administration's handling of drug charges against Panamanian leader Manuel Antonio Noriega, with the Noriega question ``more significant to people'' than any other issue. Bush's criticism of Dukakis' prison furlough program ``resounds with more voters than any other charges'' against the Massachusetts governor, Ornstein said. Voters are also sensitive to Dukakis' veto of a bill that would have required the Pledge of Allegiance in Massachusetts schools, not because it raises questions about Dukakis' patriotism, but because the public thinks his judgment was wrong, Kohut said. The poll analysis called Bush's running mate, Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana, ``the achilles heel of the Republicans'' because of doubts about his qualifications. While Quayle did not appear to be an issue on which votes were swinging directly, Ornstein said Quayle would be ``more of an issue than the overall numbers suggest'' as ``a symbol of George Bush's judgment combined with Noriega and Iran-Contra.'' ``Given the doubts ... whether either candidate has the judgment to be a good president ... these debates are either going to reinforce doubts or erase doubts about their judgment,'' Ornstein said. ``I think the debates are critical.'' Bush and Dukakis have their first debate Sunday in Winston-Salem, N.C., their second on Oct. 13 or 14 in Los Angeles. The poll suggested that Bush has advanced his cause by painting Dukakis as ideologically out of step, and he has benefited from increased voter satisfaction with the nation's course and confidence in the economy. But while Bush has drawn some conservative Democrats to his side, he has lost ground among other Democratic-oriented groups, said Gallup's analysis. It said the more significant movement was Bush's greater support from Republicans in general, and particularly from Republican-leaning, blue-collar conservatives identified in the survey as ``disaffected'' voters. ``For all the talk of the importance of the Reagan Democrats, this analysis suggests that the most significant dynamic in recent weeks has been the return of Republicans to the fold _ with disaffecteds showing the largest proportionate swing,'' Gallup's analysis said. The ``disaffecteds,'' set apart by their suspicion of government, made up about a tenth of the registered voters in the poll. They went from a nearly even division on Bush and Dukakis in May to backing Bush by 61 percent to 27 percent this month, Gallup said. The poll defines the electorate by grouping voters with shared values, rather than through the more traditional measures of political party identification or ideology. Bush has made inroads only in the most conservative Democratic groups, Kohut said, and he lost ground among another Democratic group, ``seculars,'' who are non-religious and put an emphasis on personal freedom. A pro-Dukakis group, the liberal ``'60s Democrats,'' supports Dukakis more strongly now, apparently in reaction to Bush's ideologically based attacks. At the same time, core Republican groups support Bush almost unanimously, and in each ``there has been a dramatic increase in the proportion who say they support Bush strongly,'' Gallup's analysis said. As a result, it said, ``It is clear that the main effect of the Bush efforts has been to solidify his base among Republican-oriented groups.'' Overall, Bush was supported by 50 percent in the poll of 2,001 registered voters to 44 percent for Dukakis. The survey, done Sept. 9-14, had a margin of error of three percentage points, so Bush's lead was not statistically meaningful. But, in this as in other polls, Bush had trailed badly before the Republican convention in August.
AP880519-0239 	X	A Libyan Foreign Ministry official on Thursday denied Australian charges that Libya was responsible for a riot in the South Pacific island nation of Vanuatu, JANA news agency reported. The Libyan agency, monitored in Rome, quoted the unidentified official as dismissing allegations of Libyan involvement as ``baseless and not true.'' Prime Minister Bob Hawke of Australia had charged ``there is no doubt about a Libyan connection in Vanuatu'' following reports in the Australian news media that Libyan-trained activists were involved in Monday's violence. JANA quoted the Libyan source as saying such a statement represented ``a plain attempt to justify the open Australian interference in the internal affairs of an indepedent state _ Vanuatu.'' Riots in Vanuatu's capital, Port Vila, killed one person was killed and injured nine Monday. Police said 30 people were arrested after a march by 2,000 villagers over land-leasing rights turned violent, with protesters looting shops and smashing store windows. Australia and New Zealand airlifted riot control gear there at the request of the government. Vanuatu lies about 1,200 miles east of Brisbane, Australia. Vanuatu sent shockwaves through the generally pro-Western South Pacific in 1986 when it decided to establish diplomatic ties with Libya and the Soviet Union. Formerly the Anglo-French New Hebrides, Vanuatu was administered jointly by Britain and France from 1906 until 1980, when it achieved independence. It has a population of about 130,000.
AP880509-0018 	X	A top aide to Attorney General Edwin Meese III says a recent congressional report accusing his boss of violating White House ethics rules should top a ``list of sleaze.'' Assistant Attorney General William Bradford Reynolds, who last year was given additional responsibilities as counselor to Meese, said the bipartisan Senate report is harmful to ongoing inquiries into the attorney general's actions. ``We've got a process that's in place, people who are investigating and it seems to me that we do not contribute to an integrity of that process when we have that kind of report that comes out that so disserves and so misstates what the facts are,'' Reynolds said on CBS-TV's ``Face the Nation'' program. ``If that is the best case that one comes up with against this attorney general for ethical conduct, I would have to say that this man is as clean as he can possibly be in every respect.'' Reynolds, the top enforcer of the Reagan administration's civil rights policies, added: ``If I were making a list of sleaze, I'd put that (the report) at the top.'' The report, issued Wednesday by the Senate Governmental Affairs subcommittee on oversight of government management, concluded that Meese's violation of the rules resulted in ``improper favoritism'' for the scandal-plagued Wedtech Corp. The report said E. Robert Wallach sent Meese, then counselor to President Reagan, 16 memos in 1981 and 1982 detailing Wedtech's efforts to get a contract to build small engines for the Army and government officials' opposition to those efforts. Meese has acknowledged interceding on behalf of Wedtech, but says he only wanted to assure that its contract proposal got a fair hearing. Wallach, a longtime friend of Meese, is now under indictment in the Wedtech scandal. He was paid $1.3 million by the Bronx, N.Y.-company, which subsequently won the no-bid, $32 million contract. ``Former Counselor to the President Edwin Meese III and former Deputy Counselor Jim Jenkins failed to observe the White House policy on contracts with procurement officials, which failure resulted in improper favoritism toward a specific contractor,'' the report said. The White House procurement policy in effect since October 1981 says that ``obviously, no member of the White House staff should contact any procurement officer about a contract in which he has a personal financial interest or in which a relative, friend or business associate has a financial interest.'' Reynolds said the report ``made reference to a policy or rule in the White House that wasn't in existence at the time the Wedtech thing was referred over to the attorney general.'' Independent Counsel James McKay has been investigating Meese's ties to Wedtech, a $1 billion Iraqi pipeline project promoted by Wallach, and other matters. In addition, the Office of Government Ethics is conducting an inquiry into why Meese solicited 30,000 lawyers and businessman to pay more than $3,000 apiece to a profit-making organization to attend a conference. Reynolds maintained that despite the investigations, morale at the Justice Department remains good. ``Actually, it's very good,'' he said. ``We have a lot of professionals. Everybody in the department is very professional. ``Most of the people in the department take the attitude that is much the same as George Bush's attitude. These are investigations that are ongoing. They'll play themselves out, the process ought to be allowed to work,'' Reynolds said. ``So far,'' he added, ``nobody has suggested that the attorney general has done anything that comes close to unlawful activity or activity that is going to result in an indictment of any kind.''
AP880409-0130 	X	Police renewed an unprecedented 1,000-officer blitz on street gangs Saturday, redeploying a special task force that made nearly 600 arrests in an anti-gang dragnet the night before. ``All day long, we have been lifting the hammer,'' said police spokesman Bill Frio. ``The chief called at 3 p.m. and said to drop it.'' The force made 592 arrests during the citywide sweep Friday night and early Saturday for a variety of felonies and misdemeanors, and also impounded at least 10 guns and 96 vehicles. Police said 224 of those arrested were believed to be gang members. Police had earlier reported 634 arrests, but later corrected the figure, which was caused by confusion during booking, Frio said. Officials were unsure how many of those arrested were held and how many released on bail, he said. The huge show of force began Friday evening with Mayor Tom Bradley's pledge to ``take back the streets,'' and continued through the night, with even Police Chief Daryl Gates and an assistant chief making arrests. Gangs were blamed for 205 killings in the city of Los Angeles in 1987. Countywide, the death toll from gang violence last year was 387, many of the victims bystanders caught in the gangs' trademark ``drive-by'' shootings. Only one violent gang-related incident was reported in the city during the sweep Friday night, police said. Shots were fired at an officer serving a search warrant at a house. A special weapons and tactics team was summoned but there was no further violence, Frio said. Six people were arrested for investigation of narcotics possession. Cocaine, cash and several guns were seized. In a gang-related incident outside the city, Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies in nearby Lynwood arrested a young man after a two-hour standoff that began when he was spotted with a gun, which he allegedly pointed at a deputy. The sweep was the city Police Department's biggest attack ever on drug dealing and street violence. Over the past month, smaller task forces have arrested a total of 1,400 suspected gang members, Frio said. The police chief made a collar of his own when he stopped a man in gang dress, frisked him and discovered a bottle of prescription drugs in somebody else's name. The man was held for investigation of possession of a controlled substance, said Lt. Mark Leap. Assistant Police Chief Robert Vernon, who was on patrol on the southside, also made an arrest. His collar was wanted for a parole violation, Frio said. About half the special force went to augment regular patrols in the south-central area. The rest of the officers spread out in gang areas throughout the city. The task force was assembled by putting officers on overtime at a cost of $150,000 a day. Bradley has vowed to spend whatever it takes to intimidate the gangs. Drug dealing and gang violence have long been a fact of life in the poor, minority neighborhoods of south-central Los Angeles. But wider community attention _ and political will _ focused on the violence in February when a woman was shot to death during a gang confrontation in the affluent, mostly white Westwood entertainment district near the University of California, Los Angeles. More recently, after a Good Friday attack killed one man and injured a dozen others, none of them gang members, Gates announced plans for the new task force. Bradley has budgeted funds for 400 new police officers next year, and political opposition to law-and-order measures aimed at gangs is virtually non-existent. City Councilman Robert Farrell, a longtime southside representative, said as the task force formed Friday evening that there was strong support for the police effort and no opposition over potential civil rights violations. ``The expansion of the police force ... is what is necessary to maintain a sense of order, decency and civility, and the police deployment is appropriate,'' he said. The Police Department's use of a ``suspect profile,'' intelligence work and preliminary planning is ``why you've not heard anyone raise the issue of civil rights concern,'' he said.
AP880407-0039 	X	A woman who dropped out of the 1988 Miss USA pageant after being charged with shoplifting pleaded guilty Wednesday. During her appearance in Hennepin County District Court, former Miss Minnesota-USA Sue Bolich, 24, of Mound admitted stealing several items from the Dayton's store at the Southdale shopping mall. She was arrested Jan. 22. Police said she had taken $370 worth of items, including a swimsuit, silk scarves and hairpieces. In exchange for her guilty plea, she will be placed in a program while she receives counseling. ``It's fair for a first-time alleged offender like Susie, and I think things will turn out fine for her,'' said Bolich's attorney, Peter Timmons. Bolich's successor to the Miss Minnesota-USA title also withdrew before the Miss USA pageant, after it was reported that she had pleaded guilty to shoplifting in 1986.
AP901104-0070 	X	Lewis du Pont Smith isn't as greedy as voters might think looking at a sample ballot. The chemical heir wants only one legislative job, not four. A sample ballot published in the Delaware County Daily Times correctly identified Smith as an independent candidate in the 5th Congressional District. It also listed him as a candidate in the state House races in the 159th, 160th and 168th districts. ``It was my fault,'' said R. Bruce Downing, director of the county election board. A sample ballot his office supplied to the paper was wrong, he said, adding that a corrected version was supplied the paper to publish Monday. Downing said only the ballot published in the paper was incorrect; a sample distributed around the county were correct. Smith, a follower of imprisoned political extremist Lyndon H. LaRouche Jr., had asked the District Attorney's Office to investigate the mix-up. But District Attorney William H. Ryan Jr. said he determined the mix-up was only an error. Smith, 33, is running against Republican Rep. Richard Schulze, an eight-term incumbent, and Democrat Sam Stretton, a West Chester attorney, in the Tuesday election.
AP880828-0069 	X	Japanese Ambassador Nobuo Matsunaga says a free trade agreement between his country and the United States is being considered more seriously because recent successes in resolving trade disputes have improved relations between the two nations. It is time to ``build our partnership on the basis of our interlocking strengths instead of constantly warring over our separate weaknesses,'' Matsunaga told the Washington Council on International Trade last week. The ambassador said that the much-discussed U.S. trade deficit and the corresponding Japanese trade surplus ``simply do not comprehend'' the scope and complexity of the economic and political relationships between the two countries. ``It is quite understandable, therefore, that thoughtful people on both sides of the Pacific are now considering the possible benefits of some form of free trade arrangement between the United States and Japan, the two largest and most dynamic economies in the world, whose two-way trade is exceeded in value only by America's trade with Canada...'' Matsunaga said in his Thursday address. A U.S.-Japan free trade agreement _ which essentially would remove trade barriers between the two nations _ was proposed first in 1981 by Mike Mansfield, U.S. ambassador to Japan. The initial reaction was widespread skepticism that two countries with such different cultures and legal systems could fashion a workable agreement. But earlier this year, Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd raised the issue with Japanese Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita. And Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and now Democratic vice presidential nominee, asked the U.S. International Trade Commission to prepare a report listing the pros and cons of such an agreement. The interest is driven not only by the increasingly complex trade relationship between the two countries, but by concerns by both about their trade relations with other nations. Japan has concerns about how the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement may affect its own trade with the United States and Canada. And both countries are concerned that the lowering of trade barriers among European Community nations, scheduled for 1992, could lead to increased difficulty in gaining access to that market. David Rohr, a member of the federal International Trade Commission who recently visited Japan to gather opinions for the study requested by Bentsen, said the Japanese are ``really scared'' of the sweeping U.S. trade bill _ signed into law last week and criticized by Matsunaga as ``disproportionately protectionist'' _ because of its sanctions for unfair trade practices.
AP880624-0189 	X	Police kept guard around Burma's holiest Buddhist shrine Friday after student protesters had abandoned the hilltop pagoda. Pilgrims who entered the spawling Shwedagon Pagoda after it was reopened Friday said they found no trace of the demonstrators. Traffic increased in Rangoon, and all markets were open, although fewer shoppers were seen. Police also kept tight security around other temples in the capital. Nine people were killed in the week of student-led street violence, officials said. The government imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew, closed institutions of higher learning and prohibited all public meetings. Buddhist pilgrims reported Thursday that students had moved into the shrine, a centuries-old marvel of golden spires and stupas, to set up a ``strike center'' that would coordinate anti-government protests. Pagoda trustees who spoke on condition of anonymity said university students arrived in groups at the shrine Wednesday afternoon and probably mingled with worshippers before the 6 p.m. government curfew. The students were also said to have left later that day, though it was not clear whether they too were observing the curfew or departed for some other reason. The trustees said security officials searched the temple grounds Wednesday night and barred public access Thursday. The week's protests also forced the suspension of classes at schools in Mandalay, the country's second-largest city. Anti-government protests also have been reported in Pegu, north of Rangoon, and in Moulmein, on the southeastern seacoast. Since October, the 26-year-old regime of strongman U Ne Win has been rocked by three violent protests in Rangoon and smaller ones in other parts of the country. Diplomatic and other sources says lack of personal freedoms and a downward spiraling economy are fueling unrest. Buddhist pagodas in Burma have traditionally been centers of political protest. In 1920, Rangoon students moved into the Shwedagon grounds to launch agitation against the British, then Burma's colonial rulers. The posting of guards at Sule, Botataung and other shrines was viewed as a measure to prevent activists from entering the Buddhist holy places, where violence of any kind is forbidden. Last week, students at several institutions had peacefully demonstrated for release of detained students and legalization of student unions. Violence broke out after the government responded by closing the schools. On Tuesday, about 5,000 students and other protesters fought police with stones. Last March, police and military units brutally suppressed a similar demonstration, arresting hundreds and killing what Western diplomats put at possibly up to 100 protesters.
AP900131-0256 	X	The author of the biggest U.S. restrictions to trade with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe said today that those restrictions should be waived immediately but not repealed. ``The principles of Jackson-Vanik should be solidly retained ... as a back-up insurance that we will not abandon world leadership on the issue of human rights,'' former Rep. Charles A. Vanik, D-Ohio, told the House Ways and Means Committee. Vanik, however, disagreed with the Bush administration's insistence that Moscow make law its recently adopted free emigration policies before the United States lifts the high tariffs imposed on Soviet imports. President Bush promised Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev at the Malta summit in December that if the emigration policies are made law, Bush would seek a one-year waiver of the Jackson-Vanik restrictions as part of a new U.S.-Soviet trade agreement the two leaders hope to sign in June. ``I judge the Soviet Union by the deed more than the statute,'' Vanik said of recent Soviet emigration policies. ``The process appears to be a well-established, non-reversible course.'' He said U.S. slowness in normalizing trade relations with Moscow and the newly reincarnated governments of Eastern Europe risks losing those fledgling free markets to other Western powers such as Japan, West Germany and Italy. House Democrats expressed frustration that the administration has not moved faster to lower the barriers to expanded trade with countries behind the crumbling Iron Curtain _ a region one businessman described as the biggest new market since the opening of the Americas in the 18th and 19th centuries. ``We're worried, we don't see any actual planning for this,'' said Rep. Sam Gibbons, D-Fla. ``We don't spot the administration doing a lot.'' Business people have favored outright repeal of Jackson-Vanik, saying they are unwilling to make the type of investments Bush has called for to rebuild the economies of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe without better assurance that policies will not be changed suddenly. ``If you think we're going to make investments on the basis of an 18-month waiver, we're not,'' said John Murphy, chairman of Dresser Industries in Dallas. Vanik, however, predicted that repeal of the 1974 law that he co-wrote with the late Sen. Henry Jackson, D-Wash., would have ``a tough time in Congress'' because of 45 years of Cold War conditioning to distrust the Soviet Union. ``It's a matter of political reality,'' he said. ``I think the rest of America is not yet prepared to consider anything more for the Soviet Union than a waiver.'' The law was enacted largely to stop the last proposed U.S.-Soviet trade agreement initiated by former President Nixon in 1972 and to pressure Moscow to remove restrictions that prevented Soviet Jews from emigrating to non-communist countries. Basically, it prohibits all export credits or credit guarantees to Soviet bloc countries that restrict emigration. The law also subjects Soviet bloc exports to the United States to stiffer tariffs than those applied to other countries. Soviet emigration has climbed from just under 2,000 in 1986 to approximately 195,000 in 1989. American officials acknowledge the biggest barrier now is limits the United States and other countries are putting on the number of Soviet immigrants they will accept. ``The reasons for Jackson-Vanik no longer exist, but people find a reason to keep it alive,'' said Rep. Thomas J. Downey, D-N.Y. Meanwhile, Senate Democrats on Tuesday proposed a new half-billion dollar aid package _ $200 million more than Bush wants _ to foster emerging democracies in Eastern Europe. The bill, introduced by Sen. Claiborne Pell, R-R.I., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, would augment $738 million in aid already approved for Poland and Hungary with $511 million targeted for Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Romania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. Pell said he would not be surprised if his proposal is increased during the legislative process ``in view of the profound interest of the United States in supporting positive developments in Eastern Europe.'' Bush, as part of the fiscal 1991 budget he proposed Monday, asked for $300 million as a ``special assistance initiative'' for Soviet bloc nations, including Poland and Hungary.
AP880826-0260 	X	The $4.2 billion Safeway buyout was partially financed by the sale of several divisions. Vons Cos. Inc. bought 172 Safeway stores in Southern California and Nevada, and Supermarket Development Corp., which operates Furrs supermarkets, acquired 59 Safeways in Texas and New Mexico.
AP880510-0036 	X	The United States plans to send cash payments to Contra rebels inside Nicaragua that will enable them to buy food locally while a dispute over resettlement keeps them from receiving food and other supplies, an administration official says. The payments will range between 50 cents and $1 a day for thousands of Contra fighters _ ``enough to keep body and soul together,'' according to the official, who spoke Monday on the condition that he not be identified. A final decision will be made later in the week by Alan Woods, administrator of the Agency for International Development, the official said. After the Contras and Nicaragua's leftist government signed a temporary truce on March 23, Congress approved a $47.9 million humanitarian aid package for the rebels, consistent with a provision in the truce agreement. The legislation permits deliveries of food, clothing, shelter and medical supplies and medical care for children who are war victims. The agreement specified that the rebels receive the aid after resettling in seven mutually agreed cease-fire zones. However, no food or other supplies have been sent inside Nicaragua because a dispute over ground rules within the zones has prevented the resettlement from taking place. This has left some Contra units with acute food shortages. Air drops have been ruled out because of fear that Sandinista fighters might shoot down the planes used to transport the food. At the time of the truce, there were an estimated 12,000 Contras inside Nicaragua but many have fled into Honduras in search of food. The monthly cost of the payments is expected to be between $60,000 to $450,000, depending on availability of Contra couriers based in Honduras to deliver the cash and the number of rebels inside Nicaragua that can be reached at any given time. Most of the payments will be in cordobas, Nicaragua's currency. In addition, AID has earmarked more than $300,000 per month in family assistance payments to rebels with technical skills. Part of the funds are being assigned to resistance personnel who work at Contra offices in Miami. Nicaraguan authorities maintain that any humanitarian assistance sent to the Contras without prior inspection by an officially designated verification commission would be illegal under the truce agreement. Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega has objected vigorously to an interim program under which U.S.-sponsored aid is being sent by truck or air drop from Tegucigalpa to Contra camps on the Honduran side of the border. The bulk of this aid _ 262 metric tons _ has been sent by truck, the official said. The administration has denied Ortega's claims that the shipments have contained lethal equipment, insisting that the deliveries have received prior inspection from Honduran church officials. The cease-fire began on April 1 and is schedued to last for 60 days. During this period, the Sandinistas and the Contras are to negotiate terms for a permanent cease-fire. But little progress has been made in the talks.
AP881126-0112 	X	The Canadian earthquake felt over a wide area of the northeastern United States should get people to pay more attention to making essential buildings in the region earthquake-proof, a geologist said Saturday. ``Earthquakes in New England are relatively infrequent but they do occur,'' said Dr. John Ebel, a seismologist at the Weston Observatory at Boston College in Newton. ``With that in mind, we need to be sure that critical facilities are made to stand up to earthquakes. Ebel said Massachusetts is one of the few states in New England that have a seismic provision required in the construction of major structures like tall buildings and hospitals. New York state recently required that some structures meet earthquake codes, Ebel said. Nuclear power plants in the region are constructed to withstand earthquakes, Ebel said. Friday's quake, centered 95 miles north of Quebec City, registered 6.0 on the Richter scale, according to U.S. and Canadian seismic monitors. Less than 12 hours later, two aftershocks had been recorded and more were expected, although no damage was reported, state officials said Saturday. Geophysicist Dick Holt at the Weston Geophysical Laboratory said aftershocks could register up to 5.0 on the Richter scale. The main tremor was felt in the northeastern United States from Michigan to Washington, D.C. ``One lady called us and said she had whitecaps in her fish tank and her chandelier was shaking,'' said Pennsylvania state police Cpl. Clifford Williams, near Erie, Pa. There was no structural damage reported, although authorities were told of broken windows in Maine, shelves and dishes falling in Rhode Island, and several intravenous bottles knocked over and broken at a Wilkes-Barre, Pa., hospital. Police in some areas were swamped with calls while other people never felt a thing. In Ohio, as an example, police in Columbus, about in the center of the state, said several people called to report feeling the tremor, but officials in Youngstown, closer to the quake epicenter, were not aware of the quake. People in Cleveland reported feeling buildings move. But a few miles away, seismic monitoring equipment at the Perry nuclear power plant did not detect the quake, said Todd Schneider, a spokesman for Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. In New York City, firefighters were sent to 40 separate locations in Manhattan where tremors were reported but no damage was found, said fire Lt. Kenneth Murphy. People in other buildings on the granite island didn't notice the quake. In Massachusetts, several people felt the tremor Friday night. ``We ran out of our house. Our lampshade was shaking. We were shaking,'' said Carol Dalessandro, 40, of Wakefield. At the Top of the Hub restaurant on the 52nd floor of the Prudential Center in Boston, about 120 people were dining when the earthquake struck. ``It was enough to make you feel queasy,'' said maitre d' Stephen Brown. ``The entire dining room felt it. Everyone felt they were becoming dizzy or faint. They all sort of smiled and looked at each other. No one felt panicked or anything.'' The Richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. Every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude. An earthquake measuring 5 on the Richter scale can cause considerable damage, a 6 reading severe damage, and a 7 is a major earthquake. The strongest earthquake in Canada this century was recorded off the coast of British Columbia in 1949 and measured 8 on the Richter scale.
AP881208-0250 	X	Now THIS is a record collection: Jerry Lee Lewis' original Sun Records singles. The Rolling Stones' first album, autographed by Mick, Keith, Charlie, Bill and Brian. A Beatles licorice disc signed by Paul McCartney. But Bob George, curator of this musical menagerie, speaks with obvious pride about another LP, ``Calypso Is Like So ...'' by Robert Mitchum. On this record, Mitchum does something he does not do in ``War and Remembrance'': he performs ``Mama, Looka Boo Boo'' with a psuedo-Caribbean lilt. ``Can you believe this? We just got it in the mail the other day,'' said George, who (with a little help from his friends) is trying to locate every record made since 1950 for the burgeoning ARChive of Contemporary Music. ``We forbid ourselves to refuse records. The stuff the PMRC (Parents Music Resource Center) would try to get out of libraries? Bring it in!'' said George, who estimates the collection _ begun in late 1985 _ now numbers almost 250,000 sound recordings. That attitude explains why the Butthole Surfers (a punk group) sit beside Count Basie, and how the Beatles' classic ``Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band'' shares space with Telly ``Kojak'' Savalas' creepy ``You've Lost That Loving Feeling.'' The eclectic ARChive is the brainchild of George and David Wheeler, who initially hoped to create a collection of rock 'n' roll but soon expanded their vision to include any and all types of popular music. George, producer of the breakthrough Laurie Anderson record ``O Superman,'' brought his music-business ties and a 25,000-record collection; Wheeler's contributions were 10,000 records and a master's degree in library science. The idea (and the albums) soon found a home: above the Blarney Castle bar in downtown Manhattan, up two rickety flights of stairs, in a cramped loft now filled with records from acid rock to zydeco _ 47,000 in all. The rest of the collection is somewhat far-flung, as George _ a 37-year-old Youngstown, Ohio, native _ explains in the excited voice he affects when discussing the collection. ``We have one location in Chicago, one location in my parents' basement. There's about 30,000 in Boston, 100,000 in upstate New York, and depending on whether these two (a pair of ARChive employees) give us their records, two other locations,'' he said. They also have a lot of support: every major record company currently ships the ARChive free copies of their new releases, and the non-profit organization's Board of Advisers includes musicians Nile Rodgers, Paul Simon, Lou Reed and Todd Rundgren. ``They have a real vision of where they want to go,'' Reed said shortly after the project first started. ``They're in it for the long haul.'' The singer of ``Walk on the Wild Side'' proved prophetic: George now talks about a day five years down the road when the ARChive will be part-library, part-museum, open to the public and available for researchers. ``It's like archaeology. You're digging,'' said Thomas Cvikota, who is handling ARChive fund-raising. ``You're going down into the tomb, into the ruins, and finding the essence of the culture.'' While 250,000 sound recordings sounds like an incredible collection, the ARChive falls well short of the Library of Congress' 1.7 million records dating back to 1888. But George feels that his system will soon make his assembly the final word in contemporary record research. ``It might be arrogant, but we think we really have usurped the function of the Library of Congress in terms of keeping track of this material,'' he said. ``We certainly have a better hands-on approach.'' That approach allowed the group to help director Martin Scorcese find the right music for ``The Last Temptation of Christ''; George was able to hook him up with a Moroccan vocalist who did the wailing at Lazarus' tomb in the film. Scorcese has since joined the Board of Advisers, a testament to the ARChive's digging ability and its growing fame. The search is already under way to find expanded quarters in Manhattan; once that's accomplished, George and company plan to close down and take eight months to a year just cataloging records and preparing for the grand re-opening. Once all that's finished, there remains at least one more problem. ``We read once that once a year you have to give every record a quarter-turn, because plastic precipitates down,'' said George, breaking into a loud laugh. ``I can imagine someone saying it now: `OK, today your job at the ARChive is ...''
AP880815-0230 	X	The Sandinista government is attempting to push ahead with ambitious health care programs that suffered severe setbacks because of seven years of civil war. ``We are just beginning to move ahead a bit. But we have a long way to go,'' Dr. Milton Valdez, deputy health minister, said in an interview. The Sandinistas promised improved health care as part of a package of social pledges made after they ousted the rightist Somoza dynasty in July 1979. Shortly after coming to power, the Sandinistas set out to build clinics and install a socialistic medical system. ``Our policies were based on health being a right for the people and an obligation of the state,'' Valdez said. But the promises of the leftist government gave way to the realities of the war started by Contra rebels 1{ years after the Sandinistas took control. The battles destroyed more than 100 rural clinics by the end of last year, helped bring back such diseases as malaria and created combat-related mental problems. The situation was further complicated in 1985 when a U.S. trade embargo cut off many supplies and spare parts for medical equipment. Health officials acknowlege that not all of the problems can be blamed on the war. A lack of hygiene education and basic unsanitary conditions in the capital as well as the isolated rural farmlands are blamed for a current epidemic of dengue, an infectious disease carried by mosquitos. During six days in July, the Health Ministry reported, almost 3,000 children were treated for diarrhea, the No. 1 killer of children in Nicaragua. The government recently called on residents in Managua to clean-up the trash and cut the grass in their neighborhoods. Valdez said health programs suffered serious deterioration by 1983 with the loss of clinics and personnel and doctors who fled the country. ``We had constructed a health system for peace. It clashed with the war,'' Valdez added. ``We had malaria under control along the Pacific Coast. But then we began large troop mobilizations to the mountains, where malaria still existed, and they brought it back to the cities.'' Doctors and medical volunteers couldn't get into remote combat regions or those controlled by the Contras. Barricada International, a Sandinista publication, said in a recent edition that 600 students, health workers and teachers had been killed, wounded or kidnapped while working in war zones. Mental problems stemming from combat surfaced. ``It's difficult to confront. The ones who spend two years fighting have the most problems,'' Valdez said. ``We have seen an increase in violent deaths _ homicides and suicides _ and more aggressiveness in general.'' One woman told a reporter her son returned from almost two years in combat with serious emotional problems. ``He would scream in his sleep that the Contras were coming,'' she said. ``He would become nervous when he was awake.'' Valdez said mental problems also are found among the numerous ex-soldiers who suffered losses of limbs in the war. ``It's not the actual loss of limb that causes the problems but the psychological part,'' he said. ``The combatants are No. 2 on our priority list. No. 1 are the children.'' The Health Ministry this year outlined a three-year plan and designated 1988 the year ``for defense and protection of children's lives.'' Infant mortality, halved since July 1979, stands at 64.5 per 1,000 births. It is the highest in Central America. Health workers have been taking advantage of a fragile truce since March to vaccinate rural children against polio, measles, diptheria and tuberculosis. Valdez said it was too soon to rebuild the lost clinics because fighting continues and the economy still is suffering. Medical care is free but medicine is not, Valdez said. Only about 10 percent of Nicaragua's doctors work with the state system. The others are private practitioners. Medicines are among a long list of basics that are in need. Black marketeers make large profits selling medications at outdoor markets. The largest single cause of death to adults up to age 49 last year was related to the war, Health Ministry statistics indicated. The ministry said it has detected only 26 cases of AIDS in Nicaragua and that only five of those were Nicaraguans.
AP900511-0006 	X	Adam Gotner, badly wounded, survived that bloody day when police opened fire on people in the street. Twenty years later, Solidarity runs the government and he leads a search for secretly buried bodies. Dec. 17, 1970 is etched in Polish memory as a day of slaughter. At 6 a.m., Gotner and many others were walking to their jobs at the Paris Commune shipyard. Tanks and police were posted at the shipyard gates. Suddenly, the police began shooting. Gotner, then 25, felt something hit his shoulder and saw his jacket turning red. He thought of running at the tanks, ``but I realized it would be instant suicide,'' and retreated. ``All this time, for several minutes, I could hear the shooting continuing, and then it seemed I was stepping on people,'' he said. ``I had the impression I was stepping on bodies. The whole street had been covered with people going to work. In my mind, there were at least 500 dead.'' Long afterward, Gotner realized most were not dead, but either wounded or sprawling for cover. The communist authorities had declared the port and shipyard closed because of unrest over government-imposed increases in food prices, but had not told the workers. Police may have thought the men intended to occupy the shipyard. Official accounts said 45 Baltic port and shipyard workers were killed that day, 28 of them in Gdynia and Gdansk. Many Poles believe the number was much higher. A committee led by Gotner is trying to determine how many died in Gdynia, which means digging for bodies. Two excavations have yielded no conclusive results. A macabre legend grew around the ``December events'' and the authorities contributed to it by collecting bodies and burying them hastily at night, often with no relatives present. Tombstones erected later were allowed to say only that the person honored had died a ``tragic death.'' No mention of the Gdynia killings was permitted in the state-controlled press. Attempts to investigate were blocked even in 1980-81, Solidarity's first brief experience of legal existence. Censorship was eased enough to allow Andrzej Wajda to make the acclaimed movie ``Man of Iron,'' in which the 1970 Gdynia killings are portrayed as central to the rise of Solidarity a decade later. Gotner survived five bullet wounds in the chest, eventually became a Solidarity activist in Gdynia and organized a civic committee this year to build a new monument to the victims in front of City Hall. Soon after it was formed, his committee came under public pressure to investigate the killings. With the Communist Party out of power, city officials agreed. On a sunny April day at the Witominski Cemetery, gravediggers lifted the coffin of Jadwiga Sikorska from a sandy hillside and probed a little deeper. They found two sets of bones wrapped in cloth. One was too old to be from 1970; the other did not appear old enough. A representative of the prosecutor's office was present and the remains were taken to a forensic laboratory for analysis. Mrs. Sikorska's son, Jerzy, had noticed bones in the earth when he buried his mother in March and told the committee. Earlier, 70 volunteers dug up a 60-foot stretch of path in another part of the cemetery where witnesses had reported signs of newly dug graves immediately after the 1970 shootings. No bodies were found. Experts confirmed part of the path had been dug up about 20 years ago, but only to a depth of about four feet. They said there was no evidence the soil had been disturbed below that depth for hundreds of years. ``There were several hypotheses, and mine is that they were preparing to bury bodies there and then decided not to because of personnel changes in the government,'' Gotner said in an interview at his modest apartment overlooking the shipyard. He is a slender, articulate man with dark, curly hair salted with gray, and is cautious in expressing opinions about the outcome of his search. When pressed, Gotner said: ``I think it may turn out to be true that five or 10 more people were killed than has been reported.'' That conclusion would not be popular. ``Already, I have heard gossip that the fact that we have not found anything proves we are on the side of the authorities,'' he said. Several people claimed to have seen secret burials. Three witnesses who appeared reliable, including a militiaman, claim to have seen about 200 bodies. Gortner noted, however, that ``no one is coming to us and asking us to find somebody,'' despite public appeals for information. Whether the victims were more or fewer, Gotner said, ``we want to find the truth. We cannot let half-truths continue to exist if we want to build the future.'' He removed his shirt, revealing scars on the upper chest and a very deep exit wound in his back. ``If I had known I had five bullets in me, I would have died of fright,'' he said, and laughed. The laughter gone, Gotner said: ``Doing this is my responsibility to those who died at that time. I remember when I was walking and I saw someone falling down. I wanted to to help him then, but I could not.''
AP880319-0132 	X	A resolution before the American Jewish Congress repeating its call for Israel to withdraw from the riot-torn West Bank and Gaza Strip sharply underlines its difference with Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. The United States has long endorsed the principle of exchanging territory captured by Israel in the 1967 Mideast War in return for a peace settlement with neighboring Arab states and Palestinians. But Shamir, who is visiting the United States through Monday, has strongly rejected the idea, saying it would endanger the security of the Jewish state because it would put Arabs who dream of Israel's destruction in a better position to carry out their threats. ``The position taken by our organization obviously is not in accord with that taken by Mr. Shamir this past week,'' said Andrea Binder, a spokeswoman for the American Jewish Congress, which opens a meeting here Sunday. ``We issued a statement in September which called for territorial compromise and endorsed an international peace conference. The resolution that will be voted on next week will reaffirm (the earlier) resolution,'' she said prior to the gathering. Another resolution will specifically endorse the complex peace plan proposed by Secretary of State George P. Shultz in the face of Arab rioting in the territories and measures by Israeli security forces to suppress the uprising. A third resolution will ``discuss Arab and specifically Palestinian intransigence in coming to the negotiating table,'' she said. Shamir's visit is expected to be discussed throughout the four-day convention, which will be attended by about 400 to 500 delegates. The American Jewish Congress, which has 50,000 members, was the first major American Jewish organization to favor a compromise in the Israeli-occupied territories, Ms. Binder said. The group's statement last year underscored divisions among America's Jews about the issue. Last Monday, Shamir preceded his meeting with President Reagan by saying he was outraged by the United States' suggestions of a withdrawal from the occupied territories. He said a withdrawal ``inevitably'' would invite new Arab attempts to destroy Israel and that he was ``astounded'' at the short memories of withdrawal proponents. Four days later, Shamir flatly rejected a U.S. proposal for a full-scale Mideast conference, saying that such a conference would give the Soviet Union and its Arab allies too much influence, and might force Israel to withdraw from the occupied territories. His Labor Party counterpart in Israel's coalition government, Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, is agreeable to such a conference, without which Jordan's King Hussein won't come to the table. Reflecting sharp disagreement with Shamir, Reagan said: ``Those who will say no to the U.S. plan _ and the prime minister has not used this word _ need not answer to us. They'll need to answer to themselves and their people as to why they turned down a realistic plan to achieve negotiations.''
AP901027-0024 	X	The ``Jewish lobby'' and provocative commercials for perfume and lingerie are among the subjects American troops stationed in Saudi Arabia are being advised not to discuss with their hosts. In a pamphlet written by the U.S. Central Command, the Pentagon is advising U.S. troops that those and other topics ``should be avoided or handled carefully. The pamphlet was printed for distribution to some of the estimated 200,000 American service men and women in and around Saudi Arabia. Topping the list of 15 ``sensitive'' items is ``articles and stories showing U.S.-Israeli ties and friendship.'' The pamphlet also suggests restraint in discussion of ``anti-Arab demonstrations or sentiments in the United States'' and of ``U.S. involvement in supporting Israel and Israel's current presence in Lebanon.'' The Pentagon, which advises troops to carry the booklet at all times, also suggests that the Americans avoid discussing or showing ``sensual advertisements for perfume, blue jeans, women's lingerie, gambling, alcohol, etc.; ads for pork or shellfish (which are forbidden by Islam).'' Other out-of-bounds topics include: -``Discussing the `Jewish lobby' and U.S. intelligence given to Israel.'' -``Referring to the Arab blacklisting of U.S. companies that do business with Israel or the Arab boycotting of companies that have strong Zionist representation in executive positions.'' Jewish groups have protested the list, first published in the November issue of Harper's Magazine. The World Jewish Congress said in a letter to Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney that it wanted to convey ``our sense of distress at what appears to be a capitulation to bigotry and a surrender of our democratic values ....'' The letter, from WJC Vice President Kalman Sultanik, urges withdrawal of the material from circulation. The American Jewish Committee, expressing to Cheney its ``deep sense of hurt and anger,'' said U.S. troops should not be asked to ``submerge entirely those values of tolerance, pluralism, and open-mindedness that have made the U.S. a unique democratic society.'' The Pentagon and State Department, mindful of the vast cultural and religious differences between Saudis and Americans, have issued a number of booklets setting out ``dos and don'ts'' since the troops began arriving in the Persian Gulf in August. Most of the pamphlets include a brief history of Saudi Arabia and its monarchy, and explanations of the strict Moslem code which governs Saudis' behavior. Alcohol is out for Moslems and for foreign troops; so is socializing with Saudi women. Other guidelines for Americans found in the pamphlets are: women should cover their legs and arms when out in public; women and men should not show affection in public; Americans should not show the soles of their feet to a Saudi (by sitting with their legs propped on a table, for example) because the gesture is considered an insult; Americans shouldn't ask Saudi men about their wives; Americans shouldn't offer their rations to Saudis because they might contain pork, which is forbidden by Islam. But the Central Command pamphlet goes beyond the social and cultural mores to include political topics. In forging the international anti-Iraq coalition of Western and Arab nations, the United States has been careful to avoid emphasis on its strategic and historic relationship with Israel, the largest recipient of American foreign aid. Saudi Arabia and its allies in the Arab world, who have fought five wars with Israel since it gained independence in 1948, have traditionally accused the United States of being biased toward the Jewish state. The Central Command pamphlet was originally written several years ago for American troops taking part in the biannual ``Bright Star'' maneuvers with Egypt, said Pentagon officials. That version contained several additional guidelines which have been removed from the booklets distributed for Operation ``Desert Shield,'' said the officials. The omitted material includes discussing ``films or newsclips featuring pro-Zionist actors and actresses (e.g. Barbara Streisand, Liz Taylor).'' But Pentagon spokesman Lt. Commander Ken Satterfield said that material was not included in the new booklet.
AP880918-0045 	X	A 32-year-old West German man died from severe burns suffered in the Ramstein air show disaster, raising the death toll from the Aug. 28 tragedy to 65, officials said Sunday. A statement by the Rheinland-Palatinate state government said the victim died on Saturday at a clinic in Ludwigshafen. The man, who was not identified, was from North Rhine-Westphalia state. The report said 152 people remained hospitalized with injuries from the disaster at the U.S. Air Force base in Ramstein. The accident occurred when three Italian stunt jets collided during the air show and one crashed into a large crowd of specatators and exploded.
AP881005-0129 	X	Federal investigators said today some food prices have risen faster than warranted by the drought but a Senate chairman said there's no proof so far of significant price gouging. ``Some price increases do appear higher than warranted by the drought alone,'' Sen. Patrick J. Leahy, D-Vt., told a hearing of his Senate Agriculture Committee. He said the higher levels were ``most notably in wheat-based food products, such as pasta and bread, and in some meats.'' ``But in general there do not seem to have been excessive price increases across a broad range of products that use the drought as an excuse,'' he said. The hearing was held to unveil a report from the General Accounting Office on food price increases between July and August. The report was requested by Leahy and Rep. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., in July amid speculation that the food industry would seize on the drought to hike prices. A General Accounting Office official, John Harman, told the committee some price increases found by the congressional investigative agency could not be explained by the drought. He pointed to a 6 percent jump in pasta prices between the July and August checks that the agency made. A rise of 3.4 percent would be warranted by the impact of the drought on durham wheat used to make pasta, he said. He added that cattle prices dropped as a result of the drought but that was not reflected by the cost of beef. Just why there were some unexplained increases was unclear, he said. It may have been because ``prices of packaging of food products went up significantly this year,'' GAO aide Mary Kenney told the panel. ``There could have been some labor cost increases ... we don't know if there were,'' Harman said. ``Conclusive evidence of price gouging has not been found but there are some indications out there'' that suggest it could materialize in the future, Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, told the hearing packed with lobbyists from the nation's multi-billion-dollar food industry. ``My advice to consumers is to be comparative shoppers,'' he said. ``Food processors and retailers need to know that we are all watching and they must be held accountable for any food price increases not directly attributable to higher costs,'' Leahy and Dorgan said in a statement released Tueslday night. The study showed that the price of ground beef has increased 3 percent, while the price that livestock producers get for cattle actually has dropped 11 percent since April. Rising feed prices have accelerated the sale of cattle and thus created a buyers' market. Fruit prices rose an average of 12 percent, while bread prices increased 4 percent, according to the GAO. The lawmakers stressed that the GAO figures represented national averages and that there could be differences from one region to another. Two consumer organizations issued a report on Monday saying there had been no ``price gouging'' in July and August but ``substantial'' increases in beef and some other agricultural goods in June. The report was issued jointly by the Consumer Federation of America and Washington-based advocacy group, Public Voice on Food, Health and Policy.
AP880415-0032 	X	Sen. Lowell P. Weicker wants Hall of Famer Babe Ruth to be honored with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, nearly 40 years after the baseball slugger's death. Ruth was a ``true American hero'' who ``epitomized the very best of our national pastime,'' Weicker, R-Conn., said Thursday. The medal, the nation's highest civilian award, is given by the president for contributions to national security, world peace or ``significant private or public endeavors.'' Seventy-one Medals of Freedom have been awarded by President Reagan. Weicker, in a letter to Reagan nominating Ruth for the award, noted the athlete's off-the-field contributions. ``He had great compassion for the sick and dying,'' the senator said. ``Against the advice of many, Babe Ruth visited those afflicted with Hansen's Disease in Kalappapa, Hawaii, and offered those condemned to the `leper' colony his love and kindness.'' Well known for his visits to sick children, Ruth also established the Babe Ruth Foundation for underprivileged children shortly before his death and left it a large part of his estate. Born in 1895 in Baltimore, George Herman Ruth hit 714 home runs in 22 major league seasons with the Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees and Boston Braves. A star pitcher early in his career, Ruth's career home run total stood as the major league record until Hank Aaron broke it in 1974. Ruth died Aug. 16, 1948, at the age of 53. Other baseball players who have received the award include former Yankee great Joe DiMaggio and the late Jackie Robinson, who became the first black in the major leagues in the modern era when he played for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.
AP900626-0122 	X	Minorities for the first time make up more than half the city's resident labor force, a milestone that raises stark challenges for New York's social and economic future, researchers said Tuesday. ``It's a historic moment in the life of the city: Minorities have become the majority of New Yorkers in the labor market,'' said Samuel Ehrenhalt, regional chief of the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Ehrenhalt, who reported the trend, said it will increase pressure on the city to better educate black and Hispanic youths. Other researchers said it will gradually force employers to open management jobs to minorities. ``It's a signpost on a difficult path of necessary change,'' said John Mollenkopf, a political scientist at the Graduate Center of City University. ``It points to a future that we all have to recognize and embrace.'' The labor bureau reached its conclusion after analyzing its monthly employment surveys for 1989. It found that non-Hispanic whites made up 49.7 percent of the resident labor force, under half for the first time. Out-of-town residents who work in the city _ mainly whites _ were not included in the analysis. Demographers say the city's population has been less than half white since the early or mid-1980s; it now is estimated at about 47 percent. But never before has the labor force _ residents ages 16 or older who are working or looking for work _ reached that point. Ehrenhalt said the arrival of black, Hispanic and Asian immigrants is the prime reason for the trend. The white population is about stable, and the number of native-born blacks and Hispanics has grown only slowly. ``Immigrants are playing a bigger role in New York City than they have at any time in the past three-quarters of a century,'' Ehrenhalt said. He said the trend will continue as the white population ages and leaves the workforce. ``That underscores the need to encourage a more rapid and purposeful move of minorities into the educational and occupational mainstream,'' Ehrenhalt said. ``The city economy will need them as never before.'' Lack of a high-school education is higher among minorities than among white residents, Ehrenhalt noted. And minority unemployment remains far higher _ 9.6 percent in 1989, compared with 4.1 percent for whites. Education is not the only issue. Mollenkopf said the trend increases the demands on employers to open fuller job opportunities to minority workers. Now minorities often hold lower-paying clerical jobs while senior management is virtually all white, he said. The labor bureau's figures supported the point: While 36 percent of working whites held managerial, professional and technical jobs, that fell to 24 percent of blacks and 15 percent of Hispanics. And Hispanic workers were concentrated in the declining manufacturing sector, largely in semiskilled and unskilled jobs. The city's strength is in service jobs, said Mollenkopf, ``and the higher echelons of these service firms are still basically all white. They have to come to grips with the fact that the city's labor force is multiracial. They put themselves at a disadvantage if they resist that.''
AP901014-0026 	X	The first black ever to make a runoff for mayor in Shreveport says he thinks racial hatred may have been the motive of whomever festooned his front yard with toilet paper. ``This makes me more determined to be mayor of this town,'' said C.O. Simpkins, looking at the yards of toilet paper draped through trees and bushes Saturday. ``I think that this speaks for just a small number of people in Shreveport,'' said Simpkins, a Democrat. ``In my talking to people, especially white people, I feel that they would be appalled by this.'' Simpkins said anonymous callers have threatened to kill him or his wife, Elaine, unless he dropped out of the race for mayor. Some have identified themselves as Ku Klux Klan members, he said. An anonymous woman caller woke the couple Saturday, telling them to look at their yard, then called again a few momemts later, spewing obscenities, said Mrs. Simpkins, who has fielded most of the threatening calls. Simpkins, a dentist, led the civil rights movement in Shreveport in the 1950s and early 1960s. He led the Oct. 6 primary, in which all candidates competed regardless of party, with 32 percent of the vote, and faces Republican City Council member Hazel Beard in the Nov. 6 runoff. Beard said she was worried the incident would foment racial tension in the city. Her family also has received threatening phone calls and letters during the campaign, she said, adding, ``It's no secret that I've long ago disavowed hatred in any form.''
AP881209-0181 	X	A massive worldwide outpouring of sympathy brought London firefighters, French search dogs, tons of tents and blankets and medicine to the Soviet Union on Friday to help in the Armenian earthquake. Western countries, the Soviet Union's East bloc allies and even groups not recognized by the Kremlin pledged millions of dollars of aid in a relief effort that crossed political boundaries and cut quickly through Soviet red tape. ``We are awaiting more planes from foreign countries. We badly need them and are grateful for what they are bringing us,'' said Robert Gastoryan, an assistant to the director of the Yerevan's Zvarnots airport. About 80,000 people were killed in Tuesday's earthquake, Leonid Zamyatin, the Soviet ambassador to Britain, said in London. Hundreds of thousands were left homeless.
AP900823-0210 	X	David Burke, president of the CBS News division, will be leaving this week, sources at the network said Wednesday night. Burke, 54, a former ABC News executive vice president who joined CBS in August 1988, didn't return phone calls Wednesday night, nor did Tom Goodman, Burke's chief spokesman. It was unclear if Burke was being forced out or was resigning of his own accord. One CBS source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, quoted network executives as saying the reclusive Burke had told them he was leaving, but gave no reason. ``Nobody seems to know why he's going,'' the source said. Another source, speaking of Burke's imminent departure, said Burke has had philosophical differences with CBS Inc. President Laurence A. Tisch. Pressure from Tisch to cut costs at CBS News led to the firing of more than 200 staffers in 1987. Tisch didn't return phone calls. Burke's departure may be announced Thursday, sources said. Speculation on his likely successor includes Eric Ober, a former CBS News executive who now heads the company's stations division. CBS News, after more than five years of well-publicized internal turmoil, recently had been scoring successes with its coverage of the Persian Gulf crisis, highlighted by anchorman Dan Rather's reports from Iraq. While the revamped ``CBS Morning News'' has remained third in morning news show ratings, Rather's ``CBS Evening News'' has been a respectable second to ABC's ``World News Tonight'' for several months. Burke, a former top aide to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., came into the news business late in his career when hired by ABC News President Roone Arledge. At CBS News, Burke succeeded Howard Stringer, who now is president of the CBS Broadcast Group and headed CBS news after the ouster of Van Gordon Sauter, now a TV producer in Los Angeles. There had been rumors for several weeks within CBS News that Burke was leaving. But when asked about them earlier Wednesday, Goodman, his spokesman, said that as far as he knew there was nothing to them. Burke's exit would mark the second high-level change in network news this summer. Earlier this month, former Los Angeles Times Publisher Tom Johnson succeeded Burt Reinhardt, 70, as president of Ted Turner's Atlanta-based Cable News Network.
AP880510-0107 	X	Soviet dissidents today accused police of breaking into the office of an unofficial journal and arresting editor Sergei Grigoryants without arrest or search warrants. They demanded his immediate release. Grigoryants' wife, Tamara, told a news conference in Moscow police still were guarding the small country house outside the city where Grigoryants was arrested Monday. Andrei Babitsky, an editor of Grigoryants' Glasnost magazine, said almost 400 copies of the journal and a new publication for young people had been taken from the house. Grigoryants, a former political prisoner, had agreed to allow a group seeking to found a political party called the Democratic Union to challenge the Communist Party to hold its final organizing session at his editorial office Monday afternoon. `He is not a member of the group,'' Mrs. Grigoryants said of her husband. ``He intended to be there as an observer, nothing more.'' The house is in the village of Kratkovo, about 25 miles southeast of Moscow, in an area closed to foreigners. Correspondents could not travel there to get first-hand information. After the arrest of Grigoryants and several others, about 70 people gathered at a nearby club to form the political party, which calls for multi-party parliamentary democracy, independent trade unions, a new constitution and withdrawal of Soviet troops from Eastern Europe and areas of the Soviet Union seized in World War II. During the weekend, 60 of the group's supporters were reported arrested in Moscow and one of its founders, Yuri Mityunov, said Monday that 14 remained in jail. Communist Party chief Mikhail S. Gorbachev has called for more democratic election procedures, including multiple-candidate elections. Grigoryants' magazine is named for Gorbachev's policy of glasnost _ openness on some social issues. Lawyer Valentin Yelisyenko said police had no arrest warrant for Grigoryants or any of the others, and no search warrant to enter the building. He said he was allowed to talk to Grigoryants at the local police station about five hours after the arrest, and even then police had no documents that would have permitted them to make the arrest. The Independent Union of Journalists of the USSR, a group publishers of unofficial journalist which Grigoryants heads, issued a statement saying, ``the repressive measures against the chief editor of the journal Glasnost we regard as one of the main signals that governing organs of the country are undermining those hopes they sowed in the spirits of the people.'' It demanded that Grigoryants be freed at once, that impounded copies of Glasnost be returned, court action be started against police who arrested Grigoryants. The statement also said that if there is a legal basis for action against Grigoryants, the reason should be stated publicly. Babitsky said police first arrested Grigoryants outside the house. Twenty minutes later they returned, broke down five doors and arrested four other people, he said. He said Grigoryants did not resist. Grigoryants later was found guilty of disobeying a police officer and given a seven-day jail sentence, but Yeliseyenko told reporters that dissidents had not been able to determine the charges against the other men. Dissidents said they were told police acted on a complaint by the daughter of a 96-year-old woman who rented the country house to Grigoryants that he had no right to be there. Mrs. Grigoryants said her husband had reached a valid agreement with the woman in January to rent the house.
AP900320-0143 	X	Highlights in the history of Namibia, which became the world's newest nation Wednesday: 1884 _ Declared a German protectorate. 1915 _ Occupied by South Africa on behalf of the Allies during World War I. 1920 _ League of Nations gives South Africa administrative mandate. 1966 _ United Nations cancels mandate. South Africa rejects the resolution. The South-West Africa People's Organization begins guerrilla war against South African rule. 1975 _ SWAPO acquires bases in Angola after that country's independence from Portugal. 1978 _ U.N. Security Council passes Resolution 435, calling for cease-fire, elections under U.N. supervision, and independence. 1982 _ South Africa agrees to grant independence if Cuban troops leave Angola, where they are support the Marxist government in a civil war against guerrillas aided by the United States and South Africa. 1988 _ The United States, the Soviet Union, Angola, Cuba and South Africa sign an agreement on Namibian independence, withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola, and an end to South African aid to Angolan anti-government guerrillas. February 1989 _ U.N. forces begin arriving. April 1, 1989 _ Independence process begins, but fighting breaks out between South African police forces and hundreds of SWAPO guerrillas crossing the border. More than 330 men die before a cease-fire is reimposed. July, 1989 _ More than 40,000 exiles begin returning home. November 1989 _ SWAPO wins the most votes in a U.N.-supervised election, but not enough to avoid compromising with other parties on a constitution which establishes a Western-style democracy. The last South African troops leave. Wednesday _ Namibia gains independence.
AP900503-0047 	X	A judge issued an arrest warrant for ``Cheers'' actor Kelsey Grammer after he failed to appear in court to give a progress report on a court-ordered drug rehabilitation program he was ordered to attend. Van Nuys Municipal Judge Aviva K. Bobb on Wednesday issued the warrant for Grammer, 35, who plays the brainy psychiatrist Frasier Crane in NBC's television series ``Cheers.'' A police officer at the Van Nuys station jail said early today that Grammer was not in custody. Grammer's attorney, Robert L. Diamond, had said Wednesday his client was out of town and could not be reached. On Oct. 25, Bobb had ordered Grammer to enter the drug program after he was charged with one felony count of cocaine possession. Deputy District Attorney Andrew W. Diamond said Grammer, 35, of Van Nuys, never attended the rehabilitation program. ``He failed to comply, he didn't show up in court and now there is a bench warrant out for his arrest,'' Diamond said. ``Anybody can get busy, but you can't be that busy that you can't sign up for a program for seven months.'' Grammer was arrested on April 14, 1988, after police pulled him over for driving with expired license plates, according to court documents. He was arrested after a packet containing about a quarter of a gram of cocaine worth about $25 allegedly fell from his pocket as he sat in a patrol car on the way to the police station, the documents state. An earlier arrest warrant was issued after Grammer missed a Van Nuys Municipal Court appearance on Feb. 6. He had been scheduled to prove that he had completed an alcohol rehabilitation program and 10 days of community service. According to court documents, Grammer pleaded guilty on July 13, 1988, to a charge of driving under the influence.
AP900502-0166 	X	Plans for soul singer James Brown to perform in a benefit concert this month while he serves time in a work-release program were nixed twice Wednesday by the state Corrections Department. On Monday, a Los Angeles promoter said Brown would hold a concert May 16 the King Street Palace in Charleston with Gladys Knight, Little Richard, Jermaine Jackson and others. The Corrections Department said no go. A New York concert organizer then said Wednesday that the benefit concert had been moved from Charleston to Aikin. Nope, the Corrections Department said again. Proceeds from the ``James Brown and Friends'' concert were to have gone to the non-profit Aiken-Barnwell Counties Community Action Commission, where Brown works as a counselor, said Peter Paul of the Stephen Cooper Entertainment Corp. in Los Angeles. Brown, serving a six-year sentence for aggravated assault, has been working for the commission since shortly after his April 14 transfer from prison to a work-release program. Corrections Department spokesman Francis X. Archibald said Wednesday the concert ``is not going to happen.'' ``This is inconsistent with his employment with the Aiken-Barnwell community agency. We didn't allow him to perform while he was in prison and we can't let him perform down there just because he's been sent to a work center,'' he said. Archibald said the concert was a commercial venture and not all proceeds would go to the commission. The event was to have been filmed as part of a television special on Brown's life, according to Paul. ``As part of being in prison, your liberties are restricted and you're taken away from your commercial life,'' Archibald said. ``That applies to entertainers, stockbrokers, bankers and anyone else who goes to prison.'' Officials with the King Street Palace and community action center did not return telephone calls from The Associated Press seeking comment. Brown will only respond to written inquiries, center officials said. Later Wednesday, Larry Myers of the Universal Attractions booking agency in New York said concert organizers were now going ahead with plans for a May 16 benefit performance in Aiken instead of Charleston _ despite the department's stance. The concert is to be held at the University of South Carolina-Aiken, said Myers, whose agency has booked concerts for Brown for more than 25 years. The change in location notwithstanding, Archibald said the department was firm in its position. ``Any entertainment Mr. Brown does has to be related directly and solely to his job,'' he said. ``We cannot allow some small benefit (for the commission) ... to be used as a cover for a larger, commercial exploitation.'' Brown, who turns 57 Thursday, was imprisoned in December 1988 to serve concurrent six-year sentences in Georgia and South Carolina for failing to stop for police, aggravated assault and weapons violations stemming from a two-state car chase in 1988. He becomes eligible for parole in South Carolina in May 1991 and in Georgia in March 1992. Brown is known for such hits as ``Papa's Got A Brand New Bag,'' ``I Got You (I Feel Good),'' and more recently ``I'm Real'' and ``Living in America.''
AP881125-0221 	X	Boeing Co.'s future probably holds one and possibly two larger widebody jets and a supersonic transport, company executives say. But not the 7J7. When first proposed three years ago, the 7J7 _ ``J'' for the consortium of Japanese manufacturers interested in the plane _ was to be one of the most innovative planes Boeing ever built. It was to make extensive use of composites and other high-tech materials, ``fly by wire'' electronic controls, computerized instruments and a new ``unducted fan'' engine that would have external propellers. Trouble was, Boeing said after postponing the program last year, ``market indicators continued to present different requirements on airplane size and configuration.'' Translation: Nobody wants to buy one. Asked recently whether the 7J7 would ever be built, Philip Condit, executive vice president for production and engineering at Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said: ``As described at that point, probably not.'' He said manufacturers have to try to guess market demands 10 years into the future. ``Our best guess is there is going to be a fair amount of pressure, due to (airport) gate constraints, congestions, on the bigger sizes,'' Condit said. ``That's why the effort now on 767-X.'' The 767-X is a new, larger version of the 767 widebody, which comes in two sizes _ the model 200, which holds 216 passengers in two classes, and the 300, which carries 261. Condit said Boeing is considering a version that would seat 300 people and possibly a version for 350 passengers. The 767 is becoming more attractive to airlines thanks to a Federal Aviation Administration rule change earlier this year allowing the two-engine planes to fly routes 120 minutes away from usable airports. That qualifies it for use on many over-water routes. Richard Albrecht, executive vice president for sales and marketing at Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said the company expects the FAA to extend the authorization to 180 minutes soon, which would allow 767s to fly trans-Atlantic routes. Boeing also has plans for a supersonic airliner, but executives doubt it will fly in the next 20 years. ``The economics of the supersonic transport have to be roughly comparable to that of the subsonic transport in order for it to make sense commercially,'' Albrecht said. A supersonic flight between Los Angeles and Australia might take five hours instead of 15 aboard a 747, but Albrecht says he doubts too many passengers would pay double the fare to save that time. While the Concorde supersonic airliner has been successfully marketed as a premium trans-Atlantic service, ``I don't believe anybody will build the next generation of the supersonic transport to serve a niche market, which is what the Concorde is serving now,'' he said.
AP881220-0219 	X	The signs say ``Always Open,'' but for the first time in 35 years, most of the 1,200 Denny's restaurants across the United States will close their doors for Christmas Day. Locking those doors is a different story. Some buildings have been without locks for decades because of the always-open policy. At others, the locks have never been used and the keys can't be found. The company is having to install locks at about 700 restaurants, said Joe Herrera, director of marketing at the company's southern California headquarters. The company decided to close this year so employees could have the day off. ``It will cost us about $5 million in sales,'' Herrera said. The chain's 60,000 employees were so grateful for the holiday that many sent cards and letters of appreciation to the offices, Herrera said. Employees received normal pay for Christmas Day. ``We just feel we spend 364 days a year taking care of other people's families; for one day a year we want to take care of our own,'' he said. Nobody wants to work on Christmas, he said, and it has been the top turnover day of the year, with some managers losing four or five employees. In Hollywood, the companywide closing solved manager Almaz Legesse's problem of choosing which employees of a Sunset Boulevard restaurant to give the day off. ``I had a big list. ... I was having a hard time,'' she said. The restaurant, which serves more than 1,700 Christmas customers, was awaiting a visit from a locksmith. ``We never had locks,'' Ms. Legesse said. ``After so many years of working Christmas every year it's real nice,'' said Lee Sevene, a manager at a Denny's near a turnpike in Portland, Me. ``People have always thanked us a lot for staying open,'' said Frances Bushman, manager of a Pismo Beach, Calif., Denny's. ``On the other hand they always felt sorry for our waitresses and cooks,'' she said. Ms. Bushman's Denny's has locks but she had to check to see if the keys fit. Christmases in the past have been about twice as busy as average days at Denny's, Herrera said. ``We have up to an hour wait sometimes on Christmas, and that's all day _ not just at midday,'' Herrera said. ``It actually starts on Christmas Eve, and just keeps going.'' The Christmas closing applied to 1,221 restaurants. The operators of 174 franchise restaurants were allowed to make their own decisions. Winifred Gibson, a manager at two Denny's franchise restaurants in Fresno, Calif., said they would remain open for the biggest day of the year. But she sympathized with the trouble of locking up a Denny's. ``Once I needed to lock the doors on my store. It was a major fiasco. It took us a day to find the keys,'' Ms. Gibson said. Christmas Day used to bring in mostly single people, couples with no children or elderly people with no family, she said. ``But not anymore. You have so many one-parent families.'' The three franchise Denny's in Anchorage, Alaska, and one in Fairbanks will be open, said Donna Flanagan, manager of an Anchorage restaurant. Ms. Flanagan expects to serve about 1,500 people on Christmas, which is second only to Mother's Day in bringing in customers.
AP901221-0204 	X	The Boeing Co. said a $1.8 billion order from Delta Air Lines helped it set a company record of $47.7 billion worth of airplane orders this year. Boeing's 1990 tally tops by $1.1 billion its previous high mark of $46.6 billion set last year even though the number of planes ordered fell from 1989. Boeing said Thursday that 543 planes were ordered this year, down from 883 last year. The biggest drop came in orders for the short-haul 737-series - 162 planes this year from 463 last year. But the overall dollar amount of the orders increased because of a sharp rise in orders for Boeing's most expensive jet, the 747-400 jumbo. This year, airlines ordered 172 of the 747-400s, which cost between $125 million and $147 million each. Boeing received orders for 68 of its 747-400s in 1989. Delta's order announced Thursday includes six new 767-300 twinjets, which sell for between $78 million and $86 million each. Boeing also disclosed that Delta placed orders earlier this year for three more extended-range 767-300s, an additional standard 767-300, nine 757-200s and seven 737-300s. Boeing spokesman T. Craig Martin said the previous orders included options Delta converted to firm purchases this year and several jets added to earlier orders during the final contract negotiations for those orders.
AP901114-0225 	X	Shares closed lower on London's Stock Exchange Wednesday as investors assessed the news that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher is being challenged as leader of the governing Conservative Party. Former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine said he will challenge Mrs. Thatcher in a ballot among Conservative legislators Tuesday. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index fell 10 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 2,046.0. The Financial Times 300-share index was down 10.4 points at 1,583.2. The Financial Times 500-share index fell 5.88 points to close at 1,086.64. Volume was 356.5 million shares, off from 422.9 million shares Tuesday.
AP881209-0240 	X	The dollar was mixed against the major foreign currencies Friday as investors turned their sights toward trade deficit figures to be released next week. Gold prices were also mixed. Republic National Bank of New York quoted a late bid of $422.50 for a troy ounce of gold, up from $421.30 late Thursday, but the metal declined in overseas trading. Dollar trading was lackluster as investors squared their positions in advance of the weekend and Wednesday's scheduled release of balance of trade figures for October. Jack Barbanel, a market analyst for Gruntal & Co., predicted the dollar would remain stable until the report is released. Overseas, dealers said the dollar was pressured lower by strength in the West German mark. They said the mark rose amid speculation that the Bundesbank would raise its Lombard rate by a half percentage point to 5.5 percent. The Lombard rate is the interest the central bank charges commercial banks for supplemental borrowings in which securities are used as collateral. In Frankfurt, the dollar slipped to 1.7330 marks from 1.7420 late Thursday. In New York, it fell to 1.73525 marks from 1.73865. In Tokyo, where trading ends before Europe's business day begins, the dollar fell 0.59 yen to a closing 122.43 yen. Later, in London, it was quoted higher at 122.30 yen, and in New York, the dollar rose to 122.49 yen from 122.30 late Thursday. In London, the dollar gained against the British pound. It cost $1.8490 to buy one pound, cheaper than $1.8510 Thursday. In New York, the pound was worth $1.8495, compared with late Thursday's $1.85505. Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's prices, included: 1.4620 Swiss francs, down from 1.4633; 5.9290 French francs, down from 5.9350; 1,282.75 Italian lire, down from 1,283.00; and 1.19665 Canadian dollars, up from 1.19275. Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.4605 Swiss francs, down from 1.4665; 5.9240 French francs, down from 5.9450; 1.9560 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9645; 1,280.25 Italian lire, down from 1,285.00; 1.1970 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1933. Gold closed at $422.90 a troy ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York, up from 421.30 late Thursday. But gold fell earlier in London to a late bid price of $420.75 a troy ounce, compared with $423.50 late Thursday, and in Zurich, it closed at a bid $420.30, compared with $423 bid late Thursday. In Hong Kong, gold fell $1.24 to close at a bid $423.64. Silver bullion prices held steady on the London market where the metal was trading at a late bid price of $6.16 a troy ounce, unchanged from Thursday. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, silver rose to $6.175 a troy ounce from late Thursday's $6.128.
AP880626-0063 	X	Garri Kasparov of the Soviet Union moved into first place Sunday in the World Cup Chess Championship with a 10th round victory over Ulf Andersson of Sweden. He took over the lead from Joan Ehlvest of the Soviet Union, who lost to Anatoly Karpov, also of the Soviet Union. Ehlvest is in second place and Karpov in third. There were draws between Nigel Short of Britain and Alexandre Beliavski of Sweden, Arthur Youssoupov of the Soviet Union and Johan Hjartarson of Iceland and Jesus Nogueiras of Cuba and Boris Spassky of France. The three-week tournament, the second of six in the World Cup, will reward a total of $1.2 million in prize money to the winners. Sixteen grandmasters are competing in the tournament. Standings after Sunday's 10th round: 1. Garri Kasparov, USSR, 7.5 2. Joan Elvest, USSR, 7 3. Anatoly Karpov, USSR, 6 ( l adjounred) 4. Andrei Sokolov, USSR, 6 Boris Spassky, France 6 6. Robert Hubner, West Germany 5.5 ( l adjounred) 7. Zolan Ribli, Hungary, 5.5 8. Nigel Short, Britain, 5 9. Ulf Andersson, Sweden,4 Alexander Beliavski, Sweden, 4 Jonathan Speelman, Britain, 4 Arthur Yoiussoupov, USSR, 4 Johan Hjartson, Iceland, 4 14.Ljubomir Ljubojevic, Yugoslavia, 3.5 Jesus Nogueiras, Cuba, 4 Jan Timman, Netherlands, 4
AP880729-0107 	X	A royal snafu has erupted over a dry cleaner's insistence on using the nickname she has had since childhood: Lady Di. The British government frowns on anyone taking the royal family's names in vain, including Diana, wife of Prince Charles, and twice has asked Diane Storoni to rename her establishment in Vista, about 45 miles north of San Diego. ``It's my name and I'm not going to change it for anybody,'' said Storoni, who says her family has called her Lady Di since she was a baby. ``That's that. I, personally, don't think she (the Princess of Wales) cares about this.'' Angus Mackay, spokesman at the British consulate in Los Angeles, said the names of members of the royal family are ``never used in commercial solicitation either in Britain or anywhere in the world.'' He also doesn't like the way Storoni advertises her company as ``Cleaners to the Royal Family.'' The radio commercial features an impersonation of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. The advertisement ``cheapens not only the royal family themselves, but also the humanitarian values with which they are so closely associated around the world,'' Mackay wrote in a June 14 letter. Mackay said the consulate has received several letters from local residents offended by the ads. He said a British company can advertise that it provides goods or services to the royal family only if designated ``by appointment to the royal family.'' ``We simply wanted to make the company aware of all of that,'' he said, ``and it's really up to the company to decide what they want to do. We certainly don't intend to take it any further.'' But Storoni does. She wants to open a Lady Di plant in London next year. And for anyone who is offended, her business partner, Gennaro Marinelli, said, ``Perhaps you might suggest a little less starch in their laundry.''
AP900215-0137 	X	A U.S. presidential panel urged closer Western cooperation Thursday to prevent airliner bombings and called for a tough response to nations sponsoring such attacks. Ann McLaughlin, former U.S. labor secretary and head of the commission, said at a news conference that a ``common purpose exists to combat terrorism'' and called for more sharing of information to protect travelers. President Bush created the commission on Aviation, Security and Terrorism in August as a result of the Dec. 21, 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. The seven-member panel is traveling through Europe to sound out anti-terrorism policies. At the news conference, Sen. Frank Lautenberg, a New Jersey Democrat, urged Western governments to strike back at any state proved to be involved in terrorist attacks on aviation. ``We have to let these states know we mean business,'' he said. Investigators have suggested there might be an Iranian connection to the Lockerbie bombing, which killed all 259 people on board and 11 on the ground. The jet was bound for New York. In the Sept. 19 bombing of a French UTA jumbo jet over Niger, investigators say they are convinced a Middle Eastern state was involved. French press reports have said it could be Libya. Members of the commission said they did not go into specifics of the UTA crash with French officials. But they said the fact that both nations shared a similar tragedy made their conversations more intensive. Another commission member, Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato, a New York Republican, said U.S. and French officials agreed that security at African airports was a ``gaping hole'' that must fixed. France has announced a $20 million program to improve security at African airports. The UTA flight, in which 170 people died, originated in Brazzaville, Congo and stopped in N'Djamena, Chad. McLaughlin said it was too early to give any indication of what recommendations the group would make to Bush. Their report is due in mid-May. ``We'll come up with something or we will have failed,'' she said. ``We can't leave the impression the terrorists are winning.'' The group visited Charles De Gaulle airport to look at French security measures, baggage handling and passenger check-in procedures. They said they also discussed new technology aimed at examining baggage to search for explosives.
AP901210-0249 	X	When 79-year-old Eishiro Saito steps down this week as chairman of Japan's most powerful business lobby, his successor will inherit a legendary organization, but one that's losing its luster. The Federation of Economic Organizations, better known as Keidanren, has gained widespread international recognition for the huge role it played in bringing Japan to its current heights of prosperity and economic development. However, its influence has waned in recent years because of aging leadership, business scandals and a decline in the importance of heavy industry that traditionally has dominated the federation. Most observers believe Friday's leadership change may mark the beginning of a transitional period for the federation, although they expect no immediate switch in the policies of Japan's economic giants. The 44-year-old Keidanren was first regarded as the voice of ``Japan Inc.'' in the 1950s. As one of four large industrial federations, Keidanren helped direct business development and ensured support from the government by controlling business donations to political parties. The federation became the ``overall coordinator and fund-raiser'' for the Liberal Democratic Party that has governed for 35 years, journalist Karel Van Wolferen wrote in his book ``The Enigma of Japanese Power.'' Keidanren has 938 corporate members, including nearly all the nation's major companies, and 121 business associations. Steel makers, ship builders, and power companies traditionally have dominated the leadership. Saito and his successor, Gaishi Hiraiwa, are both from this old guard. Saito is honorary chairman of Nippon Steel Corp., the world's largest steel maker, while Hiraiwa is chairman of Tokyo Electric Co., the world's largest private electric power producer. Keidanren still is very close to the governing party. Its opinions on everything from trade to U.S. relations to foreign aid carry enough clout to draw most foreign business and political leaders to the federation's somber building on a side street in the Otemachi business district. But Keidanren has lost some pull in political circles as the ``base of expertise,'' which policy makers depend on for information, has broadened to include parliamentary committees and independent research institutes, said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, an analyst for Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd. A symptom of this loss of influence was seen last spring, when Liberal Democratic Party officials bypassed the federation and collected political donations from companies directly. Japan also has lost the national consensus of the immediate postwar years when government, industry and most private individuals believed all Japanese should work together to rebuild. ``The business community as a single community is breaking down,'' said Seichiro Yonekura, an associate professor of business history at Hitotsubashi University. As the main symbol of the tight relations between big business and government, Keidanren has been tarred by recent business scandals involving its members, some observers say. Keidanren also lost esteem among the public earlier this year when Saito issued a report opposing proposed land taxes on corporations designed to reduce Japan's outrageously high real estate prices, a problem that many people have blamed on corporate greed. ``The image of Saito (came) down'' as a result, Yonekura said. But his image already was hurting. During Saito's first two-year term, which began in 1986, he had been considered a lucky optimist exemplified by his philosophy: ``Seek for brightness and do not look at darkness.'' In photographs, he resembled a balding, bespectacled leprechaun. But several articles in the local press in the last two years criticized him for weakness and lacking a philosophy. Hiraiwa, 76, has a reputation for relatively progressive thinking, although he has not yet articulated a philosophy for Keidanren. A seemingly cheerful man, he also is known as self-effacing and patient, in part due to his 13-year service as a federation vice chairman. Compared to Saito, the new chairman is seen as someone ``more in tune with popular opinion,'' said Gregory Clark, a professor at Sophia University who studies Japan's economy. Shijuro Ogata, deputy governor of the Japan Development Bank, believes Hiraiwa may be ``in the long run, the beginning of a transition'' to younger leadership. The next leader probably will come from among the federation's 12 vice chairmen, who are scheduled for a reshuffling next month after selection rules were changed to bring in men younger than 70. The new officers reportedly will represent industries such as services and distribution.
AP880818-0169 	X	Residents said Thursday they will ban further excavations around the gold-filled tomb of the father of Alexander the Great until plans for a museum are approved. ``The finds from Vergina should be displayed in a museum here, where they come from. People are protesting because they're tired of government promises that it will be built one day,'' said Mayor Andreas Vlazakis. Artifacts from the tomb _ including priceless gold-decorated armor, gold wreaths and jewelery _ are displayed in the Salonica Museum, 44 miles away. Vergina first made headlines in 1977 when Professor Manolis Andronikos of Salonica University unearthed the tomb of King Philip of Macedon beneath a mound in the village. Andronikos, who has excavated at Vergina for 50 years, said he wouldn't challenge the digging ban, but added: ``I feel very bitter and I hope reason will prevail.'' Alexander the Great became ruler of Macedon when his father was assassinated at a wedding feast in 336 B.C.
AP900719-0022 	X	The House Ways and Means Committee is demanding that the Beijing government improve its human rights policies before the United States renews special trade privileges for another year. However, the committee, which originates all trade legislation in Congress, rejected an effort to withdraw the most-favored-nation trade benefits that President Bush extended to China last month. Those benefits guarantee the lowest tariffs available on goods imported into the United States. ``Our object ought to be to improve human rights in China, not to cut off trade,'' Rep. Donald Pease, D-Ohio, said Wednesday in arguing successfully for his bill, which the committee approved by voice vote. Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., chairman of the committee, supported Pease's bill. ``We are all outraged by human rights atrocities taking place in China,'' but revoking trade benefits would be counterproductive, he said. Rep. Richard Schulze, R-Pa., made several unsuccessful attempts to toughen the bill. Despite the massacre of protesters in Beijing's Tianamen Square in June 1989 and other human rights violations, ``the resolution says `you get one more year to do a little better,''' Schulze said. ``We have said we are going to turn our backs on it, that the almighty dollar ... is much more important.'' Rep. Sander Levin, D-Mich., described Pease's bill as ``an attempt to create enough common ground that the president and Congress can stand on it together.'' Anything tougher almost certainly would be vetoed, he said. In granting the trade benefit this year, Bush had to consider only China's emigration policy and was allowed by law to waive any concerns about it in the national interest. The bill would not affect the designation for the next 12 months. Before renewing most-favored-nation status next year, the bill would require the president to consider whether the Beijing government has made significant progress in several areas. They include: _Terminating martial law. _Accounting for citizens who were arrested as a result of nonviolent expression of political beliefs during the uprising that led to the Tianamen Square massacre. _Easing restrictions on freedom of the press. _Ceasing harassment of Chinese citizens in the United States. The president also would have to consider how denial of the trade benefit would affect Hong Kong, the British crown colony that borders China. Some members quarreled with the ``significant progress'' phrase in the bill. ``If you shoot 1,000 people instead of 5,000, have you made progress?'' asked Rep. Marty Russo, D-Ill. Bipartisan legislation in the Senate would withdraw most-favored-nation status outright on grounds the Beijing government continues to engage in torture, use of forced labor, denial of emigration and suppression of domestic dissent, as well as support of Khmer Rouge forces in Cambodia. Almost all nations, except developing countries, whose exports are allowed tariff-free treatment, have been given most-favored-nation status. Exceptions include Cuba and Vietnam.
AP880816-0078 	X	Universal Pictures may have won a temporary financial victory with ``The Last Temptation of Christ,'' but the film could be costly to the studio in the long-run, some fundamentalist religious leaders say. The movie played to sold-out crowds last week in seven U.S. cities and two in Canada, taking in $44,579 per screen for a three-day total of $401,211, Universal said. ``We're gratified at the response of the American people. Every show sold out. We're pleased,'' Universal President Tom Pollock said. John Krier of Exhibitor Relations Co., which surveys box office performance, described the film's debut as phenomenal. ``This is a tremendous showing,'' he said. A movie in general release _ for example, one shown on 1,300 to 1,400 screens, ``is really something'' if it takes in $7,000 to $8,000 a screen, Krier said. ``With all this free publicity, of course they were full. But the more the Christian community sees this thing, the angrier they will get,'' the Rev. Donald Wildmon of the Tupelo, Miss.-based American Family Association said Monday. The preacher is among several religious leaders who have labeled the film blasphemous and have urged urged a boycott of MCA Inc., Universal's parent company. ``There's no question that in Round 1, the publicity that we generated created a lot of curiosity,'' said Tim Penland, who served as a religious consultant to Universal but later resigned to protest the film. ``It certainly appears we helped Universal,'' he said. But he predicted the adverse publicity will ``ultimately burn Universal.'' ``There comes a point where the publicity becomes damaging,'' Wildmon agreed. Wildmon said the demonstrations, which climaxed Thursday with a march on Universal Studios by 25,000 Christians, are over. The next tactic will go beyond the boycott of Universal films, Universal Tours and appeals to MCA shareholders, he said, adding he may disclose the next strategy later in the week. ``Christians are angry,'' Wildmon said. ``They (Universal) may realize short-term profits, but in the long-term they will hurt economically from this. The anger is building and this isn't going to be forgotten in two weeks.'' Some conservative Christians have denounced the movie for what they said was a blasphemous depiction of Jesus, who is portrayed as fantasizing about abandoning death on the cross to live as a man and raise a family with Mary Magdalene. Director Martin Scorsese, a Roman Catholic, has said the movie is a work of fiction and was not made with blasphemous intent.
AP881002-0019 	X	Democrats who hope Sen. Lloyd Bentsen will help the ticket win his home state of Texas and perhaps the presidential election could do well to regard the fate of Henry Gassaway Davis. In case anyone doesn't remember, Davis was Democrat Alton B. Parker's running mate when Parker ran for president against Republican Teddy Roosevelt in 1904. The voters chose between Roosevelt and Parker, and their choice was Roosevelt by a 3-2 margin. Experts concede that the vice presidential debate in Omaha, Neb., on Wednesday between Bentsen and Republican Dan Quayle may make a difference, but they say the voters' final decision will come down to a choice between the top of the tickets, Democrat Michael Dukakis and Vice President George Bush. ``Unless Quayle is absolutely destroyed in the debate with Bentsen, I don't think it will hurt Bush,'' said Leo Ribuffo, a specialist in political history at George Washington University in Washington. ``People will be looking for Quayle to blow it,'' said Samuel H. Kernell, professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego. ``If he can get through the debate in a competent fashion where he looks unexceptional, it will be a real success for him.'' Eddie Mahe Jr., a Republican political consultant, said, ``I think it is reasonable to suggest that George Bush would have won Indiana (Quayle's home state) without Mr. Quayle, and with Mr. Bentsen, Mike Dukakis is still not going to carry Texas. So you wash that out.'' ``I think the odds are that Quayle will have little or no effect on the ultimate choice,'' said Thomas Mann, program director for governmental studies at the Brookings Institution here. Elspeth Rostow, a political scholar at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas in Austin, said Bush's choice of Quayle ``doesn't seem to have too much effect on the voters, at least so far.'' ``I don't think, if indeed Bush was disposed to choose Quayle to appeal to women, that so far it has had that effect,'' Ms. Rostow said. ``I think the conventional wisdom that the selection of a running mate is rarely decisive one way or another is absolutely true,'' said Ribuffo. A survey conducted this year by the Hearst Corp. supports this view. Eighteen percent of the 1,001 voters surveyed said they had changed their minds about a presidential candidate at one time or another because of their opinion of his running mate. Of those, 70 percent said they voted against that ticket. Political experts agree that if a running mate has any effect, he is more likely to hurt than help. Examples cited include President Ford's selection of Sen. Robert Dole of Kansas, who was criticized for his slashing debating style in 1976, and Walter Mondale's choice of Geraldine Ferraro, who suffered from examination of her family's finances in 1984. ``Clearly in my opinion Bob Dole in 1976 in that debate (with Mondale, Jimmy Carter's running mate) cost Jerry Ford votes,'' Mahe said. ``Clearly in 1984 in my opinion, Geraldine Ferraro cost Walter Mondale votes probably.'' In Richard Nixon's unsuccessful campaign of 1960, some thought that Republican vice presidential candidate Henry Cabot Lodge hurt the ticket's chances by pledging that Nixon would appoint a black to the Cabinet _ a statement Nixon disavowed. Lodge, a former ambassador to the United Nations, also was criticized for taking naps and not campaigning hard enough. ``Some have thought that if he had used his prestige from the U.N. more effectively, Nixon might have edged out Kennedy,'' Ms. Rostow said. There are exceptions to the rule that running mates don't help much, the experts said. While there is disagreement over whether Lodge hurt Nixon in 1960, almost everybody agrees that Lyndon B. Johnson helped Kennedy by enabling him to carry Texas. ``I don't think Kennedy would have won without Johnson,'' Ribuffo said. Also, Ribuffo said, Mondale may have helped Carter win election in 1976 by imparting legitimacy to the former Georgia governor in the eyes of skeptical liberals. Then there was the running mate that Republicans chose in 1900 to help the colorless William McKinley win a second term against the dynamic Democrat, William Jennings Bryan. The ticket of McKinley and Roosevelt became known as ``the kangaroo ticket because it had a kick in the tail,'' Ms. Rostow said. There haven't been many tickets in any other year, including 1988, with that much of a kick in the tail, the experts agree.
AP900907-0072 	X	Israel's phone-tapping scandal widened today amid reports that private investigators illegally tapped phones of more than 20 journalists and possible witnesses in an investigation of a Cabinet official. Interior Minister Aryeh Deri is being questioned on suspicion of illegally funneling public funds to religious institutions that he controls. He is a member of the ultra-Orthodox Shas Party. Israel army radio said today that police would complete their investigation in about two weeks and were expected to recommend charges against Deri. The report did not name the possible charges. If Deri stands trial, it could rattle the government of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir. A coalition, led by Shamir's right-wing Likud bloc, has a 62-seat majority in the 120-seat Parliament and needs the five seats of Shas to govern. Police believe three private investigating firms tapped phone lines in municipal officials in Jerusalem and newspaper offices in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, according to today's media reports. But a Tel Aviv police official denied the stories, saying they were ``nonsense.'' She spoke on condition of anonymity. The bugging scandal surfaced last week with reports that five people had been arrested on suspicion of tapping the phone of Mordechai Gilat, an investigative reporter for the Yediot Ahronot newspaper. Gilat had written a series of exposes on Deri in June. A tape allegedly containing a recording of a conversation between Gilat and Police Commissioner Yaacov Turner was discovered earlier this week. Reports said Turner's phone may have been bugged as well. Deri, meanwhile, suggested the left-of-center Labor Party was responsible for the investigation. He indicated it could have started as an attempt to prevent the formation of Shamir's coalition on June 11. ``Somebody decided to torpedo the formation of a right-wing government,'' Deri told the weekly newspaper Kol Hair. ``Only six days before the formation of the new right-wing government did police start to investigate accusations against me. Only one day before the new government was presented, investigators confiscated material from the Interior Ministry,'' Deri said. Shas was responsible for toppling the previous Likud-Labor coalition on March 15. During the subsequent wrangling for power, both Labor and Likud tried to lure Shas onto their sides.
AP880512-0122 	X	Girl Scout cookies bound for sailors aboard the USS Midway were shipped off to Japan today after a persistent Brownie troop squeezed their shipment past Japanese tariffs through diplomatic means. The cookies, which had been sitting in an airline ticket office since they were returned from an April 26 shipment to Tokyo, left this morning, said Jean Titus, general manager for American Airlines in Corpus Christi. Troop 807 in Beeville had sold 402 boxes of cookies to the crew of the USS Midway, stationed in Atsugi, Japan, with free shipment provided by the airline. But Japanese customs officials said they would have to levy a duty on the cookies, and they were returned to Corpus Christi International Airport. Japanese officials have denied that they said the duty would be $2,000. Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, went through diplomatic channels to clear the matter up and sent a telegram to the Brownie troop on Wednesday. ``An officer on the USS Midway tells me that he is ready to go pick up your shipment of Girl Scout cookies when they arrive in Japan this Friday,'' the telegram said. ``Everybody who was supposed to be getting the cookies was really upset when they didn't get them,'' said Petty Officer 3rd Class Sig Woolford, who was in Beeville on Wednesday while on leave from the aircraft carrier. Woolford, son-in-law of Brownie troop leader Marchetta White, said sailors have been waiting for the cookies from home for more than two months. The cookies were scheduled to connect with a flight in Dallas, then catch a flight to Narita Airport near Tokyo, where representatives of the U.S. Navy will be allowed to take the shipment duty-free. ``I think it's great and I'll tell the girls this afternoon at our regular meeting,'' said Ms. White. ``I'm sure you'll hear a cheer go up.'' Japanese officials issued a statement Tuesday denying that the tariff ever was as high as originally reported. The Japanese Consulate in Houston reported that the airline made an inquiry in Tokyo about the cookies, but did not say that they were intended for U.S. servicemen stationed on a ship.
AP880613-0078 	X	Polish leader Wojciech Jaruzelski today opened a two-day meeting of the Communist Party Central Committee with a plea for national reconciliation and a promise that more independent groups will be legalized. But he appeared to rule out talking to the outlawed Solidarity trade union, which Polish authorities have maintained accepts money from the U.S. government. ``We can talk to anyone, as long as he is not a client, especially a paid one, of a foreign court,'' Jaruzelski said. The plenum was the first meeting of the 230-member Central Committee since Poland was shaken by strikes in April and May, and it was expected to give important signals of the authorities' future moves to prevent more unrest. Jaruzelski, first secretary of the Polish United Workers Party, said upcoming nationwide elections for municipal and provincial councils offer Poles an opportunity to chose active candidates who could represent their needs. The elections Sunday are structured in a way that assures in advance that the Communist Party and its allies will dominate the councils. But Jaruzelski said more seats have been set aside for non-party members. He said those independent people who refused to join the councils were ``another case of missing the train of history.'' The party leader, who also is president of the Council of State, said a government-social commission should be established to monitor price increases in Poland and said across-the-board price increases such as were introduced earlier this year should be avoided in the future. Jaruzelski confirmed that Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev will visit Poland next month and said the trip will be important for Poland's future. And the Polish leader spoke at length about the disenchantment of youth with the Communist Party and called for redoubled efforts to win the allegiance of the younger generation. Referring to the strikes between April 25 and May 10, Jaruzelski said they increased the chance for national understanding because they showed the majority of Poles displayed ``a front of realism.'' Strikes took place in five factories, with brief stoppages or strike threats in 25 others. But the labor unrest did not spread out of control to factories around Poland as it did in 1980, when Solidarity was born. A new law on associations is awaiting enactment, said Jaruzelski, but that should not stop new groups from being legalized in the meantime. He mentioned no specifics, but there have been official hints that at least three independent groups _ a Warsaw-based pro-private enterprise Economic Society, the dormant Polish chapter of the PEN writers' club and the Dziekania political discussion club in Warsaw _ may soon be legally registered. Jaruzelski also suggested a ``round table'' meeting of representatives of existing and proposed associations to discuss solutions to Poland's problems. He gave no details on who would convene the meeting, who could be invited or when it might take place. ``National reconciliation and one of the goals of the socialist renewal,'' Jaruzelski said. ``It is broader today than in past years.''
AP880901-0302 	X	Stock prices recovered slightly and the U.S. dollar edged lower against the Japanese yen in Friday morning trading. The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, which plunged 431.69 points Thursday, the third largest single-day decline this year, was up by 30.74 points at 26,965.00 in the first 15 minutes of trading. Dealers said share prices started to recover as the foreign exchange market stabilized. The dollar, which rose 1.73 yen on Thursday, opened at 136.25 yen, down from the previous day's close of 136.70 yen. The dollar's decline on Friday morning was due partly to a 0.20-yen loss overnight in the United States, according to a foreign exchange dealer at the Bank of Tokyo. ``The dollar-buying drive in the market is still strong, but the rate is not moving that quickly,'' he said on condition of anonymity. ``Until the scheduled report of U.S. unemployment figures later today, there is a wait-and-see mood among investors, which slows down dollar-buying,'' he added.
AP900512-0110 	X	The president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference led a court-ordered race relations seminar Saturday for four former Ku Klux Klansmen, and said the response was better than he'd expected. ``I didn't anticipate the tremendous experience we had,'' the Rev. Joseph Lowery of Atlanta said after he and other SCLC representatives met for two hours with the ex-Klansmen in a hotel. However, one of the ex-Klansmen, Roger Handley of Steele, called the session ``a wasted two hours.'' ``He didn't change my feelings,'' said Handley. ``I told Lowery he ought to take his message of brotherly love into the projects where there are drugs, rapes and murders.'' Another former Klansman, Terry Tucker of Cullman, called the session ``a learning experience.'' ``We've got a lot more common ground than people would think,'' he said. ``I never have hated blacks and I don't think they hate us.'' The session was ordered last year by U.S. District Judge E.B. Haltom Jr. as part of a settlement of a lawsuit stemming from Klan violence against black marchers in Decatur on May 26, 1979, in which gunfire wounded two whites and two blacks. Black marchers were protesting the conviction of Tommy Lee Hines, a retarded black man found guilty of raping a white woman. Klansmen attacked the marchers and shots were fired, wounding four people. As part of the court settlement, the men were ordered to leave the Klan, perform community service and pay varying fines. Lowery said he talked to the four ``about the oneness of the human family, self-respect, the economics of race _ how all poor people are taken advantage of, about the futility of violence and violent resistance to racial progress, how darkness can't hold back the dawn.'' Cross-burnings have been a dreaded symbol of the KKK over the years, but Lowery said he told them ``the cross is a symbol of our faith, and we hope it would be used for that.'' Tucker finished serving a two-month prison sentence for the violence in March 1989 and said he's had no contact with the Klan since. ``I feel there are different ways of going about things,'' he said. As for his role in the Decatur melee, Tucker said: ``I probably was just a young person sowing bad oats, that's all.'' Another of the four attending the seminar, Doug Berryhill of Huntsville, said it was ``a productive meeting and I learned quite a bit.'' Herbert Campbell of Tuscumbia, using a newspaper to shield his face from news cameras, was asked if he learned anything. ``I learned to keep a newspaper with me,'' he said. Handley said he would have no reservations about rejoining the Klan. A fifth Klansman, Derane Godfrey of Wylam, was ordered to attend the session but didn't show up. Elizabeth Johnson, a lawyer from the Montgomery-based Southern Poverty Law Center, which brought the lawsuit against the Klan, said she wasn't sure what would be done about Godfrey's absence. Lowery said that at the end of the two-hour course, all but one of those present held hands while prayers were offered. He declined to say which one. Among the blacks at the session were Lowery and his wife, Evelyn; an SCLC aide, Ralph Worrell of Atlanta; the Rev. John Nettles of Gadsden, Alabama SCLC president, and the Rev. Abraham Woods, president of the Birmingham SCLC chapter.
AP901004-0194 	X	A proposal to give $11.1 billion in new tax breaks to small corporations is being criticized as opening the door for wealthy investors to duck their share of federal taxes. The Bush administration is pushing the new incentives as a substitute for the capital gains tax cut that congressional leaders refused to accept. Some of those leaders are suspicious of the substitute, which actually includes a small capital gains reduction. The proposal is attached to the $500 billion, five-year deficit-reduction agreement that President Bush and congressional leaders reached this week. The tax break proposal ``has very serious flaws,'' Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said Wednesday. ``I think it will lead to a substantial increase in tax shelters and great abuse.'' Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-Ill., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, also has reservations. If the proposals ``are growth incentives, he thinks they promise only to help tax shelters grow,'' an aide said. Public outrage about tax sheltering was a major factor in the sweeping income tax overhaul in 1986. Before then, many wealthy individuals and profitable corporations were able to cut their taxes to almost zero by making investments - many with no chance of success - that offered huge up-front deductions. A Chamber of Commerce official said the new provisions could be drawn tightly enough to avoid reviving such tax shelters. Bush said the plan would provide ``powerful new incentives for productive investment in the kinds of companies that account for much of America's job growth.'' The key part would allow a person to deduct 25 percent of the first $50,000 invested in a year in a ``small corporation.'' Such a corporation would be defined as one with non-borrowed capital of $50 million or less. Critics said the definition is so broad it could cover some giant companies so heavily in debt that stockholder equity falls below the $50 million threshold. Others noted the possibility a big company could split into smaller divisions in an effort to attract investors looking for tax breaks. ``It's an outrage and probably stands a shot at being knocked out of the budget package,'' said Robert McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a labor-financed group. ``We don't see the need to encourage people to invest their money in ways that don't make sense for them in the absence of a tax incentive.'' The special deduction and several other small-corporation incentives were written into the budget agreement at the administration's insistence. That occurred after congressional leaders refused to accept Bush's proposal to cut the capital gains tax, on grounds that nearly 80 percent of the benefit would go to those with incomes over $100,000 a year. Capital gains, the profits from the sale of investments, are fully taxed at the same rates as other income. One of the proposed incentives is a new capital gains tax cut - albeit a narrow one. It would allow an investor in a small corporation to avoid tax on up to half the price for which the stock was sold, as long as it was held at least five years. Steve Entin, an analyst with the conservative Institute for Research Into Economics of Taxation, who wants a broad capital gains cut, said the incentive package is so narrowly drawn that it would benefit ``only a handful of well-to-do people who could afford to sink a substantial portion of their money into risky small companies.'' Ordinary investors have to diversify to reduce risks, Entin said, and there is little in the package for them.
AP880817-0295 	X	Farmers Insurance Group Inc. agreed to discuss a $4.9 billion buyout offer from Batus Inc., but warned it still has reservations about the proposed friendly merger. On a separate front in the eight-month takeover battle, the insurer vowed to appeal a ruling by regulators in Illinois Tuesday giving a tentative green light to a Farmers-Batus merger in that state. Farmers' offer to negotiate was the first significant easing of the company's opposition to a buyout by Batus, a Louisville, Ky.-based tobacco and retailing company. Despite the offer of negotiations, Farmers has a number of objections to a merger, said Leo E. Denlea Jr., Farmers' chairman and chief executive. ``Farmers' board of directors has made no decision concerning a sale of the company,'' Denlea said in a news release. ``...We will have to address the issues being raised in the insurance regulatory hearings, and the concerns of our insurance exchanges, in a comprehensive fashion if there is to be any prospect for a transaction.'' A Batus spokesman said the company had no immediate comment but was preparing a statement. Batus, a subisidiary of BAT Industries PLC of Britain, is seeking to acquire Farmers to gain a foothold in the American financial services business. Farmers is the nation's third biggest auto and home insurer and seventh biggest property and casualty insurer. Top management of Farmers declined to negotiate after Batus announced its initial proposal early this year, and Batus took its offer directly to shareholders with a cash tender offer. That offer now stands at $63 a share, or about $4.4 billion. Last week, Batus announced it would be willing to pay $72 a share for the company if Farmers' management agreed to back the bid. It was the latter proposal, which values the company at approximately $4.9 billion, that won Farmers' agreement to negotiate. Farmers has contested Batus' overtures in mailings to shareholders, in court, and in hearings before insurance regulators in nine states where authorities must approve such a merger. On Tuesday, the Illinois Department of Insurance approved a takeover by Batus as long as the company agreed to maintain Farmers' fees and various lines of insurance, and to continue non-smoker discounts. Batus spokesman Wilson Wyatt said the company has already agreed to meet those conditions. A Farmers spokesman said the company intended to appeal the decision. In the various insurance hearings, Farmers, noting Batus owns the company that makes Kool and Viceroy cigarettes, has suggested a buyout could bring an end to the company's insurance discounts for non-smokers. Though Batus officials have maintained they would do no such thing, Farmers' representatives have suggested an insurer owned by Batus would de-emphasize anti-smoking policies and advertisements. Ohio regulators have approved the merger with conditions similar to those made by Illinois, and Arizona regulators also approved the deal. Idaho, Washington and Oregon have rejected it and decisions or hearings are pending in Texas and Kansas. California regulators rejected the merger, but that decision was overturned by a state court. Most of the decisions are in various stages of appeal. Farmers has 68.4 million shares outstanding, and employees hold options to buy an additional 1.5 million new shares, bringing the total of shares likely to be bought in an unfriendly takeover to 69.9 million.
AP880213-0055 	X	A five-alarm fire today consumed the landmark high school that inspired the hit movie and TV show ``Fame,'' injuring 30 of the 200 firefighters battling the blaze in freezing temperatures and high winds. The third, fourth and fifth floors and a section of the roof of the six-story former High School for the Performing Arts in Manhattan collapsed, forcing officials to pull all firefighters out of the building, said spokesman Efrain Parrilla. Some firefighters were sent back into the building about two hours later because there was no other way to get to the blaze, Parilla said. The fire was declared under control by 5:30 a.m., nearly five hours after it was reported, Parrilla said. Pockets of flame were expected to continue burning through the morning, but firefighters were expected to be able to keep it from spreading. Four firefighters were sent to hospitals with minor injuries, Parrilla said. Twenty-six others were treated at the scene for sprain, cuts, and other minor injuries. The fire at what is now Liberty High School near Times Square was reported at 12:38 a.m. The blaze started on the third floor and burned up to the roof, Parrilla said. High winds and slippery conditions due to recent snow and rain hampered firefighters, the spokesman said. The National Weather Service reported winds gusting to 28 mph and wind chills of minus 7. The high school was designated a city landmark in 1982. The performing arts school, part of the public school system, combined with the High School of Music and Art about three years ago and moved to a new home. Although the Board of Education did not permit film crews to shoot scenes for ``Fame'' inside the high school building, the facade was seen in the 1980 film and the TV series.
AP900906-0204 	X	The stock market took a tumble today, faced with revived upward pressure on world oil prices. The price of oil climbed as pessimism spread about chances for any early resolution of the crisis in the Persian Gulf. Crude oil futures for October delivery jumped about $1.70 a barrel, to well above $31 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. In addition, analysts said buyers were holding back awaiting the Labor Department's report Friday morning on the employment situation for August. The figures are expected to show continued weakness in the economy. Speculation has begun to spread on Wall Street that the data might encourage the Federal Reserve to adopt a more stimulative credit policy in an effort to ease strains on the economy and the banking system. But Wall Streeters are not entirely convinced that long-term interest rates would automatically fall in response to such a move. In fact, some say, rates could rise in that setting if fears increased that the Fed was softening its stand against inflation. That, in turn, would stand to leave the central bank in an even worse policy bind than it has to contend with now.
AP880928-0192 	X	The Senate on Wednesday wished the crew of the space shuttle Discovery ``Godspeed, good luck and a safe journey home'' on their mission scheduled to take off Thursday morning. In a resolution introduced by the body's leadership and passed by voice vote, the Senate congratulated the men and women of the U.S. space program for the work they had done on the mission and wished good luck to shuttle commander Rick Hauck and rest of the Discovery crew. The measure was introduced by Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., and Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan. Co-sponsors included former astronaut, Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, the first American to orbit the Earth, and Sen. Jake Garn, R-Utah, first congressional observer to fly in space. The flight will be the first since the explosion of the shuttle Challenger on Jan. 28, 1986. Dole said that since the Challenger crash, ``Our space program has been under intense scrutiny. Tomorrow will be no different. The successful launch of the Discovery will be the beginning of a new era in America's exploration in space.''
AP880618-0127 	X	For 20 years, Barth Green struggled with his frustration, doctoring crushed and twisted spinal cords while knowing paralysis was permanent and irreversible. Spinal cord injuries doomed active, healthy people to spend the rest of their lives in wheelchairs. In the worst cases, they can't out of bed, pull on socks or underwear, brush their teeth, comb their hair, lift a forkful of food to their mouths or scratch an itch. But Green made a lousy fatalist. In 1985, he founded the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, dedicated to reversing one of the most catastrophic conditions in medicine by solving the mystery of one of the most complex structures in biology. Today it is the country's largest and most comprehensive spinal cord research unit. ``No one's ever had the guts to say we want to cure paralysis, (but) I'm committed to eliminating wheelchairs. It's a world war against paralysis,'' said Green, a neurosurgeon. ``Our philosophy is to approach it like the Manhattan Project to split atoms to stop Hitler, or the Apollo Project to put a man on the moon in the space race.'' In an era when miracle drugs, transplant surgery, laser beams and artificial body parts have made medicine seem capable of solving almost anything, paralysis remains stubbornly unconquered. Researchers have made progress toward regenerating nerves in animals' spinal cords with transplants of cells from fetuses, electrical pulses and genetic engineering. But some say the challenge may be tougher than building atomic bombs or space ships. ``Those were engineering problems with a general consensus it could be done. Those guys had blueprints. We don't have any blueprints,'' said Dr. Walter Levy, a researcher at the Miami Project. ``We're in the Wright brothers stage. What's required is a space shuttle,'' said Dr. Michael Kliot, a neurosurgeon at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. ``There's a ray of hope. But we're very, very far away from curing spinal cord injuries.'' An estimated 250,000 to 500,000 people in the United States are paralyzed as a result of injuries, according to the Department of Health and Human Services; an additional 10,000 to 15,000 people are hurt each year. No agency keeps precise count. Auto accidents account for about half the paralysis cases. Other causes are dives, falls, and accidents with guns and knives or while playing sports. The average age of victims is 19. Marc Buoniconti, son of former All-Pro football linebacker Nick Buoniconti of the Miami Dolphins, was 19 when his neck broke and crushed his spinal cord as he made a head-first tackle, paralyzing him from the neck down Oct. 26, 1985. ``I knew I broke my neck right away,'' said Buoniconti, who had played football since he was a 75-pound 7-year-old. ``My right arm flopped to the turf. I couldn't move. I couldn't get my breath back. I couldn't talk. ``In one second, I went from the best shape of my life to the worst,'' Buoniconti said. ``I was taking my last steps doing my favorite thing. It was on a football field, the place I love the most.'' Now, from his wheelchair at home in this Miami suburb, the 21-year-old Buoniconti is tackling paralysis as national spokesman for the Miami Project. The project's logo is a four-frame sequence of a stick figure standing up out of a wheelchair, matching the can-do grit of Buoniconti's personalized license plate that reads ``I'LL WALK.'' ``It's not a question of `if.' That's not in our vocabulary. It's a question of when,'' said Steve Towle, the project's executive director and a former Dolphins linebacker. ``I've seen what it takes to win. It can be done. It will be done.'' The spinal cord, encased in the bony armor of the spinal column, is as wide as a thumb and has the consistency of jellied candy.
AP881224-0090 	X	The Polisario Front announced Saturday it is sending a top-level delegation to meet Morocco's King Hassan II. It would be the first such encounter since Polisario guerrillas went to war with Morocco 13 years ago. No date for the meeting or names of delegates were given. The statement issued here by the Polisario Front said the initiative follows a declaration by the Moroccan monarch to the French press that he was ready to meet Polisario officials. The group called Hassan's statement ``a constructive position taken in response to repeated calls by the Polisario for dialogue.'' The talks would be the first direct contacts between Morocco and the Polisario or its political structure, the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic, since the guerrilla group began fighting Morocco for independence for the Western Sahara, annexed by Morocco in 1975. The Polisario statement said the group would cooperate fully with the Organization of African Unity and the United Nations, which have been seeking a peaceful solution to the conflict. Both Morocco and the Polisario have agreed in principle to a referendum on the future of the Western Sahara. However, the statement reiterated Polisario's stance that Moroccan troops and administration in the disputed territory remain an obstacle to the process and should be removed. Polisario declared the Western Sahara a republic in February 1976. It has since been recognized by 45 countries, 27 of them Organization of African Unity members. Morocco quit the group in 1980 when the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic became a member.
AP900608-0080 	X	Gang members returning from a friend's funeral allegedly used two rented limousines in a drive-by shooting that wounded one man, police said. The unidentified man was treated for a gunshot wound to the foot at Brotman Medical Center in Culver City after the 2:30 p.m. Thursday shooting, Sgt. Bob James said. James said no arrests were made immediately, but the limousines were impounded and the drivers questioned and released. ``These drivers don't know what these people are doing,'' James said. ``These people are in the back partying. The drivers don't know what's going on.'' On Tuesday, gang members opened fire from a limousine and killed 19-year-old Robert Lewis Riley Jr., police said. Both shootings were under investigation.
AP900126-0004 	X	Hubert de Givenchy wound up an exciting week of summer haute couture with a parade of his gala couture clothes for women who want to look on the sexy side. Spanish-born Paco Rabanne won the Golden Thimble Award for his amusing, lively collection that made full use of ``new'' materials like fringed raffia, crystal-globe embroideries and sequined leather. Two-time winner Christian Lacroix finished a close second in the semiannual prize awarded by an international jury of fashion journalists. Givenchy's show, on Thursday, was magnificent. From caramel leather shorts topped by fresh and airy white linen blouses to the most extravagantly opulent evening wear, the show ranked as one of best this master of the fine art of couture has ever produced. His narrow rustic linen suits or belted knee-revealing dresses in shades of bright blue, rust, peach, and golden sand with their bold silver buttons couldn't be faulted for daytime. Givenchy brought out plenty of trouser suits, tailored in soft gabardines or shiny linen tweeds. He solved the dilemma of see-through chiffon blouses with a white-dotted transparent black number sporting a big floppy bow to hide bosom details. The sharp Givenchy silhouette with padded shoulders in suits was softened up with considerable sexiness for late-day wear. Even the bridal number was barely more than a sprig of pastel silk flowers on a prancing nude. But the main elements of style were there. Almost every evening outfit was a show-stopper. His enormous-flowered gazar and organza evening gowns were breathtaking. The fabrics featured bold poppies, daisies, lilies of the valley or daffodils on hot-colored backgrounds of kelly green, citron, tomato, purple or fuchsia. Some white faille bustier gowns with black-lace embroidery glowing with siren-red chiffon or affeta wraps were dynamite, guaranteeing a grand entrance. Valentino, who has shown luxury ready-to-wear for 10 years in Paris, has finally abandoned Italy as a showcase, choosing a Trocadero museum auditorium for his second Paris couture show. On Wednesday night, he brought out a dazzling show of glamorous clothes for rich women, the outfits looking particularly light and young. He led off and ended with swingy, short clothes in his original signature color of white, suits cut with longer jackets and short skirts, waves of accordion pleats around for dancing skirts. Otherwise, Valentino spiced the show with lots of his favorite hot reds and soft tones like celdadon, wisteria, peach and silvery gray in the softest of fabrics like cashmere, silk crepe and acres of flounced chiffon _ a Paris must for couture. Valentino used a lot of tricky latticework in his late-day toppers and the sumptuous evening wear included all kinds of elaborate draping, pleated transparent capes, sequined pastille embroideries on chiffon, and tiers of lace. Per Spook as usual went his own way in a simplified, sporty view of couture that has nothing to do with pretension or grandiose entrances. Except for a few charming buttoned jersey short shift dresses, he seemed allergic to leggy looks. His trouser outfits were cut a bit baggy around the ankle and he often topped these with cute layered styles from a bustier top to a blouse-jacket. But if the 1990s are going to be full of color and feminine clothes as most couturiers seem to think, Spook's best contributions are in some of his bright print sporty toppers and adorable evening wear.
AP900814-0021 	X	President Mikhail S. Gorbachev has acted to restore the rights of victims of Josef Stalin, under whose rule millions of peasants died of starvation, were shot or sent to labor camps as ``enemies of the people.'' In his toughest condemnation yet of Stalin's forced collectivization of agriculture, which began in the late 1920s, Gorbachev said Monday that thousands of innocent people still bore a ``stain of injustice.'' In a sweeping decree, Gorbachev said the ``repressions conducted ... during the period of collectivization'' were ``unlawful and contradictory to the main civilian and economic rights of human beings.'' He condemned repressions against ``all citizens on political, social, ethnic, religious and other motives in the 1920s through the 1950s,'' and moved ``to completely reinstate the rights of these citizens.'' Gorbachev said the Soviet Union was taking this action now, because ``our society ... has chosen the path of moral revival, democracy and legality.'' The decree orders the government of the Soviet Union and its republics to submit, before Oct. 1, proposals to legislatures on restoring the rights of repressed citizens. Gorbachev also empowered his top advisory group, the Presidential Council, to supervise the actions. The decree, however, excludes those ``lawfully sentenced for crimes against the motherland and against the Soviet people'' during World War II and in the prewar and postwar years. It orders the Soviet government to draft legislation defining the crimes that are not subject to rehabilitation. The decree also does not consider what compensation, if any, victims should receive. An informal political group, called Memorial, has demanded compensation and restoration of rights for Stalin's victims. A special commission to study the victims of Stalinist repression has already rehabilitated thousands. ``But even now, thousands of cases haven't been considered,'' Gorbachev said in his decree. ``A stain of injustice hasn't been removed from the innocent Soviet people who suffered during forced collectivization, who were sentenced, deported with their families to remote regions without means of existence, without a right of appeal, and without even being aware of the term of their sentence.'' The decree urges specifically that clergymen and citizens persecuted for religious motives should be rehabilitated. Under Stalin, thousands of priests were shot and religious worship was sharply curtailed. In a landmark speech in November 1987, Gorbachev accused Stalin, who ruled the Soviet Union from 1924-53, of ``enormous and unforgivable'' crimes. But in that speech, he also called Stalin's collectivization ``a transformation of great importance.'' In Monday's decree, there was no such equivocation. ``Thousands of people were subject to moral and physical torture,'' it said. ``Many of them were annihilated. The lives of their families and next of kin were turned into one of humiliation and suffering without any hope.'' Western historians say as many as 20 million people were shot, starved to death in famines the Kremlin did everything to encourage, or simply vanished into the gulag during Stalin's reign of terror. Thousands of Stalin's victims were released from labor camps and rehabilitated after Nikita S. Khrushchev denounced the dictator in a secret speech to the party in 1956, three years after Stalin died.
AP880331-0164 	X	Two crosses made from lilies for separate Easter flower shows were rearranged into pillars after the American Civil Liberties Union objected that the displays promoted religion on public property. The crosses, part of the annual Spring and Easter Flower Show at the Garfield Park Conservatory and the Lincoln Park Conservatory, were altered Wednesday, said Nancy Kaszak, general attorney for the Chicago Park District. Ms. Kaszak said she was contacted Tuesday by an ACLU attorney who contended the crosses were a display of religious symbols on public property. Because of the protest, park workers converted the crosses at both conservatories into pillars of flowers, she said. Jane Whicher, staff counsel for the ACLU in Illinois, said the diplays were brought to her attention by a staff member who visited the Lincoln Park Conservatory. ``My concern is that the cross put up by a public body on public property was a violation of the First Amendment,'' Whicher said. ``It shouldn't have been erected in the first place, but I commend the park district on removing it so quickly.''
AP901203-0077 	X	Two seamen were executed Monday on charges of killing their captain and three other crewmen in a mutiny aboard a Taiwanese trawler last year, prison officials reported. Hsu Guohsin, 29, from the Chinese province of Fujian, and Taiwanese Yu Tien-shou, 36, were executed after the Supreme Court upheld the death penalty imposed by the Taipei District court last year, the officials said. The men were shot in the back. The seamen were convicted of killing crewmen of the trawler Tung Chung in June last year while it was fishing near Indonesian waters. The two said they mutinied because the captain abused them and gave them too much work to do.
AP900804-0112 	X	Do all things get cheaper by the dozen _ even children? Things are starting out that way for Vicki and Stephen Kesler. Valley View Hospital, where Mrs. Kesler had delivered six of her most recent children, provided its services free when she went there for her 12th. The child, Breanne Marie, was born in July. ``I thought it would be nice to do something for them because they had supported us so much over the years by having their children here,'' said John Johnson, the hospital administrator. Betty Mahan, a hospital spokeswoman, said Saturday she did not know how much the free services were worth. The couple have lived in Rifle, in western Colorado, for 10 years. He is an engineer and she is a homemaker. Mrs. Kesler said that anytime she has to fill out a form that asks about her employment, she writes, ``The Kesler home, as mother of 12. That should be sufficient.'' The children range to age 19.
AP900125-0197 	X	The night he was arrested on a cocaine possession charge, Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. made repeated sexual advances to the woman reported to have helped the FBI lure him to the room, law enforcement sources said Thursday. Barry, who the FBI says was videotaped buying and smoking crack cocaine, kissed and touched Rasheeda Moore during his visit to her hotel room, the law enforcement sources said. She rebuffed him, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. According to an FBI affidavit filed in connection with the misdemeanor drug possession charge, agents used a surveillance camera located in an adjacent room during Barry's 45-minute visit to Ms. Moore's room at the hotel Thursday night. During the visit, the mayor spoke in a decisive voice while conducting city business on the telephone, said one source. The account of sexual advances was first published Thursday in The Washington Post. Barry on Monday checked into a rehabilitation center in West Palm Beach, Fla., after turning over his duties to city administrator Carol Thompson. In developments Thursday: _ Prosecutors delayed the appearance of two of Barry's bodyguards before a grand jury. A scheduling conflict with federal prosecutors investigating Barry's ties to a convicted drug dealer forced the postponement, a source familiar with the probe said. Four members of the mayor's security detail, who are assigned to the mayor on a round-the-clock basis, have been subpoenaed to testify about whether they have knowledge of any Barry drug use, said law enforcement and city government sources. _ Business, labor and community leaders were meeting Thursday night to discuss plans to encourage Jesse Jackson to become a candidate in the November mayoralty election. Meanwhile, however, Jackson complained in comments in The New York Times that the mayor's position had ``zero political leverage.'' _ Former comedian Dick Gregory, who spent several days immediately following Barry's arrest at the mayor's residence, said in Las Vegas that Barry's closest friends were ``tickled to death'' to see that he was seeking help. However, Gregory said at a Las Vegas meeting that he was angry that the federal government has spent so much time and effort in arresting the mayor. _ Bush administration drug policy coordinator William J. Bennett said Barry's arrest ``might be one of these watershed kind of events that changes peoples' attitudes and makes people really realize they have to do something.'' Law enforcement and other sources say Ms. Moore, 38, had a longstanding romantic relationship with the mayor but began cooperating with the FBI's investigation several weeks ago following her arrest on a drunken driving charge near her home in Burbank, Calif. She had been told by the FBI not to have sexual relations with Barry during Thursday night's sting operation, law enforcement sources said. She also was instructed not to smoke any crack or to make any suggestion about using illegal drugs, to avoid any subsequent defense claim of entrapment, the sources said. Barry himself raised the subject of drugs, and purchased a small quantity of crack cocaine from an FBI undercover agent posing as a friend of Ms. Moore, according to a court affidavit and sources. Ms. Moore began cooperating with the FBI after her arrest in North Hollywood, Calif. Jan. 1. The FBI, which had lodged a ``material witness warrant,'' was put in touch with her, authorities in California said. She agreed to cooperate in the sting operation after being confronted with grand jury testimony she gave last spring during which she denied using cocaine with the mayor, sources said. They said she told investigators that she and Barry used drugs on repeated occasions over a number of years, including a March 1988 weekend trip to the Virgin Islands. Her story corroborates testimony by convicted drug dealer Charles Lewis, who said he used cocaine with Barry during the Virgin Islands trip and at a downtown hotel in the nation's capital. Law enforcement sources say prosecutors are trying to build a perjury case against the mayor, who denied in sworn grand jury testimony that he ever used illegal drugs. The grand jury has called additional witnesses, including members of the mayor's security detail. A native of Washington, Ms. Moore graduated from modeling school here and has posed in the past for such national magazines as Essence. She was employed by the city government as a social worker in 1987 and 1988, according to a statement this week by the mayor's office.
AP880326-0129 	X	The case of a 23-year-old American photographer, tried Saturday on charges of drug smuggling, has hightlighted differences between the legal systems and national customs of Spain and the United States. Conan Owen, a 1986 graduate of Syracuse University, was charged with smuggling more than four pounds of cocaine from Chile to Spain in a false-bottomed suitcase. He received the suitcase from a travel agent near his home in Annandale, Va. Both prosecuting attorney Teresa Calvo, who asked for a 10-year jail sentence, and presiding Judge Jose Presencia Rubio expressed incredulity that a university graduate would accept a job from a passing acquaintance and agree to carry a suitcase halfway around the world for someone he hardly knew. In Spain, the custom is only to do business with people you know. During his year in Barcelona's 85-year-old Model Prison, Owen said he didn't understand why he had not been freed on bail pending trial. Bail was denied because Owen was a foreigner caught with a substantial amount of relatively pure cocaine. When U.S. law enforcement agents testified Saturday that Owen had provided them with information leading to a half dozen indictments of members of a suspected cocaine smuggling ring, the judge called it all ``very interesting'' but said he was only interested in Owen's case. Attorney General Edwin Meese III even delivered copies to Spanish judicial authorities of a statement made by George Barahona, the man who hired Owen, and who early last month received a two-year suspended sentence for narcotics violations from a federal court in Virginia. In the statement made in a plea bargain agreement, Barahona said Owen knew nothing about the drugs and had been used as a carrier. But plea bargaining does not exist in Spain. In her summary, Calvo implied that plea bargaining was a less-than-honorable institution. U.S. officials faced a similar problem several years ago when a Spanish court was considering U.S. and Spanish requests for extradition of Colombian cocaine baron Jorge Luis Ochoa Vasquez. The U.S. indictment of Ochoa, who was arrested in Madrid in November 1984, was based on extensive testimony obtained through a plea bargin. The Spanish court instead sent Ochoa back to Colombia in July 1986. He went free a week later.
AP880309-0339 	X	Customs agents detained a plane chartered by Air Panama to search for any U.S. currency being taken illegally out of the country Wednesday but found none and sent the aircraft on its way, a spokesman said. ``U.S. Customs had some information that there might possibly be an outbound currency violation connected with the flight,'' spokesman Michael Sheehan said. The chartered Boeing 707 was scheduled to carry military and police-type uniforms, small machinery and other merchandise to Panama City, Sheehan said. It was detained for four hours Panama's national currency is the U.S. dollar, and the cash supply has been drying up because of a dispute over control of the Panamanian government. Panama keeps an estimated $50 million on deposit in American banks, but U.S. judges froze assets in banks in Miami and New York to prevent the government of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega from withdrawing funds.
AP900327-0094 	X	The Census Bureau is increasing the number of telephone help lines, after receiving nearly 50,000 calls over the weekend, the agency said Tuesday. The toll-free service for people with questions about the census opened Friday with 390 lines available. The total is now being increased to 460 lines. Lines for Spanish-speaking callers were a particular problem, officials said, and they are being increased from 88 to 160. ``The volume of calls we're receiving means there is a high degree of awareness and support for the census. But obviously we don't want people to get a busy signal when they call and we're taking steps to make sure that they don't,'' said census director Barbara Everitt Bryant. The assistance lines are staffed from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., local time, seven days a week. The numbers are: English: 1-800-999-1990. Spanish: 1-800-283-6826. Cambodian: 1-800-289-1960. Chinese: 1-800-365-2101. Korean: 1-800-444-6205. Laotian: 1-800-888-3208. Vietnamese: 1-800-937-1953. Thai: 1-800-288-1984. Hearing Impaired: 1-800-777-0978.
AP881220-0227 	X	Inflation slowed last month to an annual rate of just 3 percent, the government said today, as clothing prices fell for the first time since August and food prices stabilized for the first time since last February. The Labor Department said its Consumer Price Index, after seasonal adjustments, rose just 0.3 percent in November, compared with a 0.4 percent gain a month earlier. Before the seasonal adjustments, prices rose just 0.1 percent, the department said. The monthly inflation figure, rounded off in the announcement to 0.3, was actually 0.25, adding up to 3 percent annually. The new figures slowed the annual inflation rate from 4.6 per cent for the first 10 months of the year to 4.4 percent for the first 11 months. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater commented, ``Consumer price inflation appears to be moderating.'' He noted that inflation has been lower in the second half of the year than the first half. With only December left, another month similar to November could enable the Reagan Administration to finish its last year in office meeting its inflation target of 4.3 percent for 1988. The Commerce Department said today that the gross national product, the broadest measure of economic health, expanded at a moderate annual rate of 2.5 percent in the third quarter, held back by the summer drought. For the same period, the department reported that after-tax corporate profits rose 3.9 percent, down from a robust 8.9 percent increase the previous quarter. Food prices, which had risen at an annual rate of 10.9 percent from April through September because of the summer drought, were unchanged in November after rising only 0.2 percent in October, the Labor Department reported. Clothing prices that had jumped a total of 4 percent in September and October with the introduction of new back-to-school and fall fashions fell 0.3 percent last month. `Widespread promotional sales for footwear and women's and girl's clothing were largely responsible for the November decrease,'' the Labor Department said. Housing and shelter costs, including residential rents, rose another 0.3 percent, the same pace they have maintained over the past nine months. Natural gas and electric rates were up 1.8 percent and 0.1 percent, respectively, from October, more than offsetting a 2 percent drop in prices for more heavily purchased home heating oil, the government said. The November decrease was the sixth in a row for heating oil. Its price is now 10.8 percent below what it was last spring. Seasonally adjusted gasoline prices were unchanged from October but remain 0.2 percent less than they were at the end of last year and 28.1 percent below their peak level of March 1981. Excluding food, energy and shelter, consumer prices for other items rose an average 0.2 percent in November compared with a jump of 0.7 percent the previous month. The November increase raised the CPI to 120.3 from 120.2 in October, meaning that a marketbasket of goods costing $100 in a 1982-84 base period would have cost $120.30 last month. In November 1987, that same marketbasket would have cost $115.40. New car prices declined by 0.2 percent, reflecting the introduction of rebates on some of the new 1989 models after rising by more than a full percentage point in September and October. However, auto financing and insurance costs continued to advance dramatically, with the former up 1.5 percent and the latter 0.9 percent above October. Airline fares also jumped a dramatic 1.1 percent. Medical costs, meanwhile, rose 0.4 percent last month and are up at an annual rate of 7 percent so far this year. Other goods and services also rose 0.4 percent and are 7.1 percent higher than they were a year ago, the government said. Food buyers last month found seasonally adjusted meat, poultry, fish, egg and fresh fruit and vegetable prices lower than they were in October. However, prices were higher for canned and dried fruits and vegetables, restaurant meals and alcoholic beverages.
AP901212-0170 	X	A judge Wednesday ordered the man charged in the assassination of Rabbi Meir Kahane to be removed from Bellevue Hospital and returned to Rikers Island jail. The judge, Ira Gammerman, ruled that El Sayyid Nosair's wounds and other ailments were not serious enough to keep him at Bellevue, as his lawyer, Michael Warren, had requested. ``You don't have to keep a patient in a hospital because he has wax in his ears and stiffness in his neck,'' Gammerman said. He said Nosair could be treated at the hospital as an out-patient. Nosair, 35, an Egyptian immigrant who lives in Cliffside Park, N.J., was shot in the neck by a federal officer Nov. 5 as he fled the Manhattan hotel where he allegedly shot Kahane to death after the Zionist rabbi had given a speech. The judge ordered an examination of Nosair by a private doctor after Warren disputed a Bellevue report that his client could return to the jail's general population. Warren charged that the city doctor was biased. Bail of $300,000 for Nosair was suspended and a hearing to set a new bail scheduled for Dec. 18.
AP880929-0003 	X	British Columbia gave an art contest, but nobody won. Jurors decided the entries just weren't good enough. ``It was a difficult situation but it wasn't a difficult decision,'' said Willard Holmes, director of the Vancouver Art Gallery. Holmes was among the jurors who decided that none of the 380 entries deserved any of the $10,000 in prize money. But the show will go on. Even though prize money has not been awarded, the 20-odd finalists will be displayed at an exhibition opening Oct. 11. The contest was organized by the Federation of Canadian Artists and sponsored by Canadian Forest Products Ltd. The theme of the competition, for which only British Columbia artists were eligible, was ``water and its usefulness to industry.'' About 380 entries by 300 artists were submitted. ``We didn't see any work which we felt we could support for the prizes,'' Holmes said Tuesday. ``I had reservations about taking part in this event and those reservations have been confirmed.'' He said the jurors first looked at color slides of all the entries and couldn't reach a decision. They then looked at the originals of about 20 potential winners without success. Canada Forest spokesman Gordon Armstrong said his company was disappointed with the jury decision but has told the artist federation to keep the prize money and use it as it sees fit.
AP880607-0077 	X	Soviet troops are delaying their pullout from Kandahar, Afghanistan's second largest city, Western diplomats said today. Kandahar, population about 200,000, has been under siege for several weeks and Moslem guerrillas are reportedly preparing for another major offensive against Soviet-Afghan troops stationed there. Reports reaching Islamabad say Afghan insurgents have pushed government troops to defensive positions around the outskirts of the city. The Soviet Union in 1979 sent troops to Afghanistan to support the Marxist regime. On May 15, the Soviets began a withdrawal, which has been slowed by attacks from guerrillas. Diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a Soviet regiment was told to cancel plans to leave Kandahar, reflecting Soviet fears over the city's vulnerability. Soviet forces reportedly have left Ghazni, on the road from Kandahar to the Afghan capital of Kabul, but some soldiers remain in Jalalabad, where the Soviet withdrawal was launched in May. There have been reports of heavy fighting in the northeastern province of Baghland. The Salang highway, stretching 200 miles north of Kabul to the Soviet border, is becoming increasingly dangerous, sources said. It was closed to civilian traffic for five days ending Sunday to allow departing Soviet troops to move north. Diplomatic sources say the convoys have been attacked by guerrillas and that up to 100 Soviet soldiers were reported killed in recent clashes. The official Kabul radio, monitored in Islamabad, continues to broadcast a list of guerrilla defeats and atrocities. It claimed Monday that 93 guerrillas were killed and as many injured in recent clashes in seven of Afghanistan's 28 provinces. The various reports cannot be independently confirmed.
AP901116-0143 	X	President Bush on Friday signed into law measures to upgrade airport security and to encourage volunteerism and community service. Bush signed the bills as he hurried to finish domestic business before an eight-day foreign trip. The Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 directs the government to develop guidelines to warn passengers of terrorist threats. It implements safety recommendations of the Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism appointed by Bush after the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. The bill sets regulations on airport use of metal detection devices. It requires airlines, airports and travel agents to relay any security threat immediately to government officials. Airline and airport employees with access to security areas will have to undergo background checks and new training. In signing the bill, Bush said he had reservations about a provision requiring the State Department to negotiate agreements with other nations to achieve the enhanced security measures at foreign airports. Bush said he believed that provision intruded on his presidential authority to conduct foreign policy and said he would direct officials to interpret it so as not to conflict with that authority. The National Community Service Act of 1990 provides $287 million for community service programs, including $5 million to begin a Thousand Points of Light Foundation to encourage volunteerism, taking its name from Bush's phrase for volunteers. It provides money for programs encouraging youth community service through schools or community organizations; grants to state education agencies; expansion of youth corps teams for such projects as environmental cleanup and helping the poor; and a test program for a civilian national service corps that would provide $5,000 in education assistance in return for a year's full-time service at a subsistence wage. Bush signed the measure despite attacks by Republicans that it included wasteful spending at a time when the government was raising taxes, and budget constraints prevented full funding existing programs for children and the poor. Bush also on Friday signed the Excellence in Mathematics, Science and Engineering Education Act to establish a variety of fellowships, training programs and grants to foster and improve education in those fields. The bill authorizes $150 million for such programs in 1991. The president vetoed the Indian Preference Act of 1990, which would have established a program to direct contracts and grants to Indian enterprises. Bush said the bill ``would impose new, expensive, and often duplicative program responsibilities'' on the Interior Department, which administers Indian reservations. Bush said in a statement that he supports the bill's goals and is ``committed to helping alleviate the widespread unemployment and underemployment on Indian reservations.'' He said the bill's issues ``deserve a full airing in both Houses of Congress. He said he would direct Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan to take steps to address problems with contracting programs involving Indian enterprises. Bush took the action before departing Friday night for Prague, the first stop of an eight-day trip that will also take him to Paris, Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
AP901117-0053 	X	President Mikhail S. Gorbachev today proposed a government overhaul that would give republics more influence and could force out Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, who has resisted swift reform. The move appeared to be a concession to Gorbachev's main rival and frequent critic, Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin, who had demanded a coalition government and Ryzhkov's resignation. Speaking to the Supreme Soviet legislature, Gorbachev also said an emergency program will be drafted within two weeks to deal with growing food shortages. He did not give details. In today's 12-minute speech, Gorbachev elaborated on some of the ideas he introduced in a speech Friday. That speech came at the demand of lawmakers, who insisted the president give an emergency report on the state of the union. Gorbachev's proposals aim to calm growing discontent over the country's collapsing economy and the increasing rebelliousness among the republics, all but one of which have made declarations of sovereignty. ``I appeal to citizens of all 15 republics to support these undelayable measures,'' Gorbachev said today. The separatist movement must be stopped, he said. ``We cannot break up (the union). We cannot go down this path.'' Gorbachev did not make it clear whether he could implement the proposals on his own or if they needed ratification by Soviet lawmakers. But Anatoly Lukyanov, chairman of the Supreme Soviet, told legislators that the 2,250-member Congress of People's Deputies, which meets next month, would have to approve any constitutional amendments for government restructuring. Under Gorbachev's proposals, the Council of Ministers headed by Ryzhkov would be replaced by several bodies under direct presidential control. The principal ruling body would be the Federation Council, which would include representatives of the republics. Legislators generally welcomed the proposed elimination of Ryzhkov's job, but unless the republics agree to join the Federation Council, the restructuring is unlikely to solve the paralysis of power in the country. Initial reaction from some republics was negative. An Estonia lawmaker said her republic and the two other Baltic states of Latvia and Lithuania would not join the council. ``We will not take part in any old or new institution which is an institution of federation,'' Marju Lauristin, deputy speaker of Estonia's parliament, told reporters. She suggested the restructuring was an attempt to establish a dictatorship. ``It is concentrating all power in the economy in politics in military affairs in one (person's) hands,'' she said. The Baltics have said that their incorporation into the Soviet Union in 1940 was illegal and have launched independence drives. Gorbachev said the Federation Council, formed in March, would be strengthened and would meet more regularly. ``Out of a consultative body it should be transformed into an effective structure to coordinate the efforts of the center and the republics,'' he said. Many republics have nullified national legislation and presidential decrees and have declared their laws supreme. The new structure was designed to end such conflicts. Ryzhkov told reporters he had no idea what new role he might have in the new structure, and said he learned of it only 20 minutes before Gorbachev's speech. But he said his job was being eliminated. ``I understood that the position of chairman of the Council of Ministers won't exist. There will be presidential rule, a presidential Cabinet,'' Ryzhkov said. Politicians, demonstrators and commentators have demanded Ryzhkov's resignation for at least a year. Yeltsin has said the country cannot solve its economic crisis as long as Ryzhkov and his Cabinet were in place. Asked if he were willing to remain in a government job, Ryzhkov told reporters, ``I will work as long as the people need me.'' Ryzhkov, 61, was appoined head of the Council of Ministers in September 1985. Previously, he was director of the Uralmash machine building complex in the Ural Mountains city of Sverdlovsk. The Federation Council, comprised of the leaders of the 15 republics and headed by Gorbachev, has been meeting only sporadically and has not taken a major role in policy-making. Gorbachev said that with the strengthening of the Federation Council, the 18-member Presidential Council, created last March to implement domestic and foreign policy, would be eliminated. To strengthen law and order, which many Soviets have complained is breaking down, Gorbachev said that presidential representatives will be appointed and sent to regions of the country. Under recent constitutional amendments, Gorbachev has the power to impose direct presidential rule in restive areas of the country. The Soviet leader appeared to be moving closer to this step with the announcement of the stationing of his representatives in those areas.
AP900119-0150 	X	The Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh said his showcase of communal living in Oregon would set an example for the world, but at his death Friday his commune was vacant and unwanted, his followers scattered, his memory reviled. Rajneesh came to Oregon in 1981. By the time he was thrown out of the country in 1985, authorities were calling him the most notorious figure in Oregon history. ``He was both a charlatan and a very evil person,'' said Vic Atiyeh, the governor during the guru's years in Oregon. ``Evil in the sense of the kind of people he gathered around him and what he allowed them to do, and his own personal arrogance. He was above everything.'' U.S. Attorney Charles Turner, who prosecuted the guru on immigration fraud charges, said the 400 sham marriages among Rajneesh's disciples that led to the immigration charges, the poisoning of 750 people at restaurant salad bars and the commune's vast electronic eavesdropping network were the largest cases of their kind in American history. ``The legacy of crime that this man left here is unparalleled in American jurisprudence,'' Turner said. The bejeweled guru brought his gospel of meditation and free love to the United States on the pretense of obtaining treatment for a bad back. He never underwent that surgery, but moved to a 64,000-acre ranch his followers had purchased in the remote high desert of central Oregon. Their stated intent was to farm the land on Rancho Rajneesh, but they built homes, a hotel, restaurants, shops, an airport and a meditation hall, and then incorporated as the town of Rajneeshpuram. After it all fell apart, an insurance company foreclosed on Rancho Rajneesh, but has been unable to find a buyer. At its height, some 4,000 red-clad disciples lived at the commune. The gathering swelled to 15,000 when followers from around the world came for summer festivals. Between morning and evening meditation sessions with Rajneesh, disciples toiled 12 hours a day. In the early afternoon, they would stop work and line the dusty roads for the guru's daily ``drive-by'' in one of his more than 90 Rolls-Royces. Singing and swaying, the disciples tossed roses onto the car's hood while armed guards hovered overhead in a helicopter. Sect members won political control of the nearby community of Antelope, renaming it City of Rajneesh, and attempted to control voting in Wasco County by busing thousands of homeless people to the commune in 1984. After state officials ordered eligibility hearings for all new voter registration applicants in the county, the Rajneeshees and their transient guests boycotted the election. ``At the time we were going through it, we didn't realize how extraordinary it was,'' said Norma Paulus, who was secretary of state at the time. ``I can't think of any comparable incidents in American history.'' Rajneesh's acid-tongued secretary, Ma Anand Sheela, was a fixture in the state's media as she accused anyone who opposed the commune of bigotry. Lawsuits were filed by and against the Rajneeshees on issues ranging from slander to the constitutionality of Rajneeshpuram's incorporation. Rajneeshee-loathing spread throughout the state. Caps bearing the guru's likeness inside a rifle target were hot items. In September 1985, Sheela and about a dozen disciples left the commune abruptly. Rajneesh made accusations against her that triggered federal, state and local criminal investigations. Rajneesh was arrested the next month during a stopover at Charlotte, N.C., on a flight to Bermuda. He pleaded guilty to two counts of immigration fraud and returned to India under an agreement with federal officials. Sheela, now 39, was arrested in West Germany and returned to Oregon, where she pleaded guilty to charges that included the attempted murder of the guru's physician with a poison-filled syringe. She also admitted poisoning several county officials and masterminding the salad poisonings at restaurants in The Dalles, the county seat. She pleaded guilty to creating an electronic eavesdropping system at the commune and to setting fire to the county planning office. A guilty plea to immigration fraud stemmed from charges that she helped arrange sham marriages to allow Rajneesh's foreign disciples to remain in the United States. Sheela, a native of India, was deported in December 1988 after serving 2{ years in federal prison. Rajneeshees say about 200 of the guru's followers remain in Oregon, but keep a low profile. Attorney General Frohnmayer says the Rajneeshee episode resulted in the clarification of state laws in several areas. ``We learned from it,'' he said. ``It would be harder for a group bent on breaking the laws of civil government to move in to Oregon now.''
AP900607-0015 	X	The $2.6 million spent by a Toyota auto plant in Kentucky to train 545 workers who did not qualify as needy is just one of many questionable expenses within federal job training programs, Labor Department investigators say. Many of the workers at the Scott County, Ky., plant were working fulltime and therefore ineligible for the Job Training Partnership Act program, the department's inspector general's office said in documents submitted to Congress on Wednesday. But Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole, testifying before the documents were addressed, said the $3 billion-a-year program has been ``remarkably free'' of fraud and abuse. Loopholes in federal law resulted in such examples as officials in Portage, Wis., spending $22,000 of federal job training money on dinner cruises and Christmas parties, Mrs. Dole told the House Education and Labor Committee. In that case, officials put job-training advance funds in the bank and then spent the interest, she said. The Senate has already passed a measure to clarify that interest earned on federal job training funds must be spent on job training, she said. Other questionable expenses outlined by the inspector general's office included: _$718,768 spent by the Houston Job Training Partnership Council for enrolling and training security guards at a cost of $3,000 each. The contractor billed for nearly 400 hours of training for each participant, even though Texas only requires 26 hours of training for registration as an armed security guard, auditors said. _$33,801 paid to a subcontractor in Michigan for placing college students in jobs they had found themselves, or with employers for whom they had previously worked or in jobs in which the employers would have hired them without federal assistance. _$640,000 spent in Louisiana to install a high-tech training center at Northwestern State University. Purchases included television cameras, satellite disks and computers. No dislocated workers were served, the auditors found. _$90,155 for inflated placement claims at the Full Employment Council of Kansas City, Mo. Another $90,000 was questioned because employers could not or would not provide payroll records to support on-the-job-training claims. Mrs. Dole said that of the thousands of private businessmen who have helped administer JTPA funds, there have been only 24 allegations of conflicts of interest. ``We believe this is an impressive record,'' she said. The overall operation of the program has been ``remarkably free of instances of fraud, abuse or other wrongdoing,'' the labor secretary said. However, she said misuse of funds was ``inevitable'' in a program as large as JTPA, which has received $21 billion since it was created seven years ago. Mrs. Dole, who supports tougher record-keeping requirements, also called on Congress to tighten eligibility requirements so the neediest cases would benefit from the program. She said she backed narrowing the requirements so the program would be more focused on people who lacked basic skills, those who are high school dropouts or those with disabilities. ``We must target ... the tougher cases, the ones who are not going to make it without our intervention,'' Mrs. Dole said.
AP900821-0065 	X	``There's recognition of the fact that now demands are being made for the release of people, and that, I think, is the definition of hostages.'' _ President Bush, explaining why he finally started referring to the thousands of Westerners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait as ``hostages.''
AP880617-0233 	X	Gen. Cesar Barrientos, minister of the treasury since Gen. Alfredo Stroessner siezed power in a 1954 coup, died Friday, the government announced. He was 82. The cause of death was not reported but Barrientos had not appeared in public since late last year and had received medical treatment in recent months in Argentina. Barrientos was an army administrative officer when Stroessner came to power and appointed him to the treasury post. Stroessner, 75, recently was elected to an 8th consecutive term in balloting that his critics claim was rigged.
AP880413-0271 	X	Seeking greater operating efficiency, Westinghouse Electric Corp. and the Swiss firm ABB Asea Brown Boveri plan joint ventures in their multibillion-dollar electric generation, transmission and distribution businesses. ``With the entrenched fixed costs and relative slow rate of growth in those industries, a partnership is the way to go,'' said Julian Manear, an analyst in Chicago for Pershing & Co. ``There's a sharing of resources, so you don't have a duplication.'' The two companies announced Tuesday that they had signed a memorandum of understanding to proceed. Westinghouse will have a 55 percent interest and ABB a 45 percent interest in each of two partnerships. ABB also will pay Westinghouse about $500 million. One partnership will make, sell and service steam turbines and generators for U.S. and Canadian utilities. The businesses have current annual sales of about $700 million and employ about 5,000 people. ``Generally, joint venturing is considered an alternative to divesting,'' said H.P. Smith of Smith Barney in New York. ``They take a business, cut it back as far as they can, then if it's still not meeting the goals, they consider'' selling it or finding a partner. Westinghouse's turbine business ``hasn't earned a lot of money for quite a number of years now. The market is depressed and will stay depressed,'' Smith said. The other partnership will involve transmission and distribution products, including transformers, meters, controls, and switchgear, now sold in the United States and Canada. The businesses have annual sales of about $1.4 billion and employ about 11,000 people. The partnership allows ABB to buy the transmission and distribution joint venture or Westinghouse to force the sale in 1990. Smith said Westinghouse improved its transmission and distribution equipment business ``to a point where it was making OK money, but still well below the corporate goals.'' In both cases, the partners will combine plants and engineering and marketing organizations in fully developed industries that show reduced growth potential. Manear said he does not expect wholesale employee layoffs or plant closings, but foresees delays in capital spending. John C. Marous, who became chairman and chief executive of Westinghouse in January, recently told securities analysts the company's goals for 1988 include sales growth of 8.5 percent and operating profit margins of at least 10 percent. Westinghouse recently announced joint ventures in factory automation with the West German electrical equipment giant Siemens A.G. Smith said the joint ventures under Marous ``are showing this new administration is not going to sit back and rest on the laurels'' of Westinghouse. ABB, headquartered in Zurich, was created Jan. 1 with the merger of Asea AB of Sweden and BBC Brown Boveri Ltd. of Switzerland. With sales of $18 billion and 180,000 employees worldwide, the company is one of the world leaders in electrical engineering. Westinghouse, based in Pittsburgh, had 1987 sales of $10.7 billion in electrical equipment, defense electronics, broadcasting and other businesses. The company employs about 110,000 workers.
AP900113-0109 	X	Donald Trump said Saturday he and partners will raze the landmark Ambassador Hotel, site of Robert Kennedy's murder and a faded glamor palace, to build a major office, hotel and residence complex. The New York billionaire's plan and endorsements by Mayor Tom Bradley and two key city councilmen seemed to spell doom for the once-grand edifice, which closed a year ago. Residents concerned about vanishing cultural heritage had urged preservation of the hotel and school district officials wanted to buy the 23-acre site on Wilshire Boulevard for a badly needed new high school. The project, which was portrayed as in the earliest stages of planning, will probably include a hotel, office space, shopping areas and residential buildings, Trump said. The New York City-based real estate magnate revealed his investment in the project at a news conference in the East Garden room of the 494-room hotel, which opened in 1921. It was in an Ambassador kitchen on June 5, 1968, that Kennedy, a New York senator and Democratic presidential candidate, was assassinated by Sirhan Sirhan moments after claiming victory in the California primary. Though it once counted U.S. presidents among its guests, and its famous Cocoanut Grove nightclub was a watering hole for Hollywood legends, the lobby area was now the only place fit for people to gather, Trump said. The hotel site was purchased last September for $64 million by Wilshire Center Partners, who include Irish real estate developer Robin Power and New York developer and investor Scott Malkin. Trump, whose involvement was rumored a month ago, was announced as the new managing partner of what is now Trump Wilshire Associates. He would not estimate the project's cost but anticipated no problem in financing it. ``I'll be investing a substantial amount of money in the project over a period of years,'' he said. ``I think we're going to have a very, very easy time getting the financing.'' The only specific structure envisioned by Trump is a 50,000-square-foot ``Cocoanut Grove Ballroom'' to fill what he said was the need for a really big ballroom in Los Angeles. It would be twice the size of the biggest ballroom here. The plan was firmly backed by Mayor Bradley, Councilman Nate Holden, whose district includes the Ambassador, and Council President John Ferraro. The officials characterized the plan as a way to revitalize the declining neighborhood a few miles west of downtown and link the downtown business district with the Century City complex on the city's west side. ``I believe it has great potential. This stretch of Wilshire Boulevard needs to be reborn,'' said Bradley. He noted he had asked the developers to help find an alternate site for a school in the area. ``Why did it take you so long to find L.A.?'' Ferraro asked Trump. Trump and Holden said the land was too expensive for a school, even if the Los Angeles Unified School District sought to acquire it through eminent domain. ``You would have the world's most expensive school,'' Trump said. Trump said it was ``very unlikely'' that any portion of the original structure would be preserved, and soundly bashed what remained of the Ambassador's character. ``This is not a good building to be in if there was an earthquake. It is an old structure and from the safety standpoint ... you wouldn't be allowed to build a building like this today,'' he said. ``Second of all it's not, according to most, the aesthetic building that really we should have at this site. It's so old and so dilapidated and so run down, and ... it's been leaking. ... It's really in very bad shape.'' He said virtually every world class architect was vying for the job of designing the new project and he expected cultural heritage buffs would ``love'' the result.
AP880628-0161 	X	A group of property owners filed a damage lawsuit Tuesday on behalf of the thousands forced to evacuate their homes after a train derailment and phosphorus fire. Named as defendants in the Christian County Circuit Court lawsuit were CSX Corp. and a subsidiary, CSX Transportation Inc. The complaint alleges negligence on the part of both companies, said Tim Futrell, attorney for the nine plaintiffs, residents of the Crofton and Nortonville areas. ``We are talking in terms of hundreds of millons of dollars in damages,'' Futrell said. ``Under the rules of civil procedure, you are not permitted to specify a specific amount in the complaint.'' Futrell said he believed at least 15,000 people could be affected by the case, noting that the accident on June 22 drove about that many people from their homes in seven western Kentucky counties. Lloyd Lewis, spokesman for CSX Transportation, said Tuesday he had no comment. A CXS Transportation tanker carrying phosphorus was among 34 that left the tracks in a ravine near Crofton. The phosphorus spilled from the ruptured tanker and burned more than 12 hours after the crash. There was no fatalities. Futrell said one of the ``reasons we are filing so quickly is because CSX has dispatched representatives to the area to get people to sign releases for a pittance of what they are due.'' Futrell said some people complained about scratching and itching and difficulty in breathing, and he said there was damage to tobacco and hay crops ``and perhaps to the soil itself.'' ``Virtually all of the plaintiffs were displaced for at least three days. They lost wages and will be seeking compensation for that.''
AP880714-0161 	X	A federal judge apologized Thursday to an attorney he had scolded and threatened with jail when she insisted on using her maiden name and the courtesy title ``Ms.'' in court. ``I have always referred to married women by their married name. This is the way my generation was taught,'' said Senior U.S. District Judge Hubert Teitelbaum, 73. ``I recognize your right to be addressed in any manner in which you see fit, and I apologize for my comments and the resulting situation,'' the judge told Barbara Wolvovitz and three other attorneys involved in the trial of a race discrimination suit against PPG Industries Inc. On July 8, Teitelbaum told Ms. Wolvovitz, whose husband is University of Pittsburgh law professor Jules Lobel: ``From here on, in this courtroom you will use Mrs. Lobel. That's your name.'' The judge originally threatened her with jail when she resisted his instruction, and when her co-counsel, Jon Pushinsky, protested, Teitelbaum found him in contempt for ``officious intermeddling'' and gave him a suspended 30-day jail sentence. Ms. Wolvovitz, representing two black men suing PPG, moved Monday for a mistrial, which Teitelbaum rejected. When she again stated her preference, he said: ``What if I call you sweetie?'' The judge said he would settle for calling her ``counselor.'' He also vacated his contempt order for Pushinsky. The jury began deliberations Wednesday afternoon and was still out when the judge made his apology, which was officially entered into court records. Teitelbaum said that if Ms. Wolvovitz still wanted to press for a mistrial, he would grant it before the jury returned with a verdict. Teitelbaum said the parties would be ``stuck with that verdict'' if they declined his offer. The attorneys agreed to not seek a mistrial. Hours later, the jury decided against Ms. Wolvovitz's clients, who had charged they were harassed at work because of their race. Ms. Wolvovitz, 36, who has practiced law for 10 years, and Pushinsky did not want to comment further after the judge's apology, Pushinsky said Thursday. ``I think that he did what he had to do, and thank God he did it,'' said National Organization for Women President Molly Yard, a Pittsburgh resident who is familiar with Teitelbaum. ``I think it's raised everybody's consciousness and that's fine.'' Tom Hollander, president of the Allegheny County Bar Association, said: ``I think it was big of him to apologize.'' JoAnn Dempler, Teitelbaum's law clerk for eight years, said the judge ``is not sexist ... does not discriminate against woman ... does not demean women.'' ``He's a tease,'' she said Thursday. ``His sense of humor is such that he likes to tease and joke and kid around, and if people do not know that, they could easily misconstrue what he's doing or saying. ``Even in court, because we're dealing with very serious matters, every once in a while to just sort of inject a little levity or reduce tension he will make a lighthearted remark, and people who know him realize he doesn't mean to offend anyone,'' Mrs. Dempler said. Teitelbaum said he wasn't teasing when he told Ms. Wolvovitz she would ``sleep in the county jail tonight'' if she refused to be addressed as Mrs. Lobel. ``I unfortunately lost my temper and the matter then got out of hand,'' he said. The judge also said he misstated Pennsylvania law when he told Ms. Wolvovitz she was legally required to use her husband's last name unless she had court permission to do otherwise. ``I was wrong,'' Teitelbaum said. ``I made a mistake.''
AP900503-0024 	X	``Good evening. Tonight's forecast calls for a 40 percent chance of rain and a 10 percent chance of a big earthquake.'' Californians may be tuning into such bulletins soon as seismologists put their computer models to work to issue warnings after ominous rattles of the Earth. The seismologists have gathered enough data on major fault systems in California to be able to predict, to some degree, the probability of a quake of 6.5 or more on the Richter scale within certain brief periods. After a foreshock of magnitude of 4.0 or greater is registered, the model will go into work, determining whether there is, say, a 5, 10 or 25 percent chance of a quake within the next three days. The developers of the model are ready to put it into use but are discussing with the state how the predictions will be used _ whether they will be released publicly as earthquake warnings or provided to state agencies so they can prepare. The model is a mathematical formula that uses data on fault activity and the probability of major shocks, Lucile M. Jones of the U.S. Geological Survey said at a meeting Wednesday of the Seismological Society of America. Seismologists long have known that big quakes generally are preceded by less powerful shocks, but the new system is more precise, Jones said. Jones said a study of the major faults in California indicates, for example, that in the relatively quiet Carrizo Plain southwest of Fresno the chance that a 5-magnitude quake will be a foreshock to an 8-magnitude quake is 24 percent. Jones, who developed the formula with Duncan C. Agnew of the University of California-San Diego, said scientists will probably never be able to predict with absolute certainty. But the percentages she can deliver are enough to let people take action to prevent damage or injury, Jones said. ``As scientists we feel that sharing information is always better than withholding information,'' she said. The state could use the information to cancel vacations for disaster personnel, Jones said. Fire stations could move trucks outside. Daycare centers could leave gates unlocked in case they need to evacuate quickly. Residents could fill bathtubs with water for drinking, put away dishes and prepare emergency supplies. ``Each individual group can start making those sorts of decisions,'' she said. ``We aren't at a really high level (of accuracy), but people have been trying to get us to make these statements because there are useful things to do. And as we get better, the probabilities are going to head up.'' Geologist Jim Davis of the California Division of Mines and Geology said he is talking with the Office of Emergency Services about whether the agency should announce earthquake warnings. Davis said he didn't think quake forecasts would unduly alarm people or otherwise cause harm. The prediction system has been worked out so far only for California, whose seismic activity has been closely studied by scientists.
AP900930-0006 	X	Michael Owen Perry's medicine could restore his sanity, but it has one enormous side effect: It could speed his death. Perry is a prisoner on Death Row, and his fate will be argued Tuesday before the U.S. Supreme Court. The state of Louisiana wants to force him to take psychiatric medication; if he is legally sane, he can be executed. Perry's lawyers argue that forcible medicating would be a cruel and unusual punishment that ignores Perry's rights to avoid unwanted medication. The American Medical Association and the American Psychiatric Association say treating Perry to aid in his execution would turn the healing art on its head. Perry's sentence should be commuted to life in prison, they suggest. ``We're saying the cost here, which is really a fundamental realignment of the role of medicine, is a very high cost, and the state's interest in the difference between capital punishment and life imprisonment without parole doesn't justify that cost,'' said attorney Joel Klein. The state says giving him the drug is simply a necessary step for carrying out a death sentence, a justifiable limitation on a condemned man's liberties much like strapping him into the electric chair. Besides, the state is required to provide medical care, and the medicine is good for him, Louisiana says. Perry, 35, suffers from schizoaffective disorder, causing him delusions, hallucinations and disordered thinking. He was sentenced in 1985 for shooting his parents and three other family members to death. Louisiana's supreme court affirmed the conviction and the sentence but suggested a review of Perry's mental competence to be executed. There is a tradition in Anglo-American law that people should not be executed while insane. This doctrine, which dates back to medieval times, was adopted by the U.S. Supreme Court in a 1986 decision. ``Insanity'' is a legal term, not a medical one. In this case it refers to mental illness so severe that the prisoner is not aware of the impending punishment and why he is to suffer it. The Louisiana court ruled Perry was sane, but only while on medication. It also ordered that Perry be medicated even over his objection. After the state supreme court refused to hear a challenge to that decision, Perry's lawyers appealed to the federal high court. Lawyers for both sides declined to be interviewed on the record, but their Supreme Court briefs lay out their arguments in detail. Lawyers for Louisiana say the death sentence wiped out any legal power Perry would have to refuse the medication. Forced medication would not be a ``cruel and unusual'' punishment because Perry would benefit medically from it, the state says. ``Common sense dictates that the State does not violate the Eighth Amendment by doing something good for a prisoner.'' In fact, Louisiana is required to medicate Perry because the Supreme Court has declared that deliberately ignoring a prisoner's serious medical need itself constitues cruel and unusual punishment, the brief says. Perry's attorneys say the forced medication would be unconstitutional punishment rather than treatment. The court order gives no consideration to Perry's medical needs nor physician judgment, they say. The order also ignores the ``very real'' prospect of serious side effects, raising the prospect of taking a ``drooling, incontinent and tremulus'' man to the execution chamber, they wrote. In any case, Perry's lawyers say, Perry's response to medication is sporadic and unpredictable, making it impossible to say whether he would be competent on the day of his execution. ``With this instability and unpredictability, how is Michael's execution to be carried out?'' the lawyers asked. ``Can the state wait until a `good day' and execute Michael? Can Michael be executed if his `good days' outnumber his `bad days' by some amount? What amount? And what happens if the date set in the death warrant is a `bad day?' '' The AMA and psychiatric association, meanwhile, say the death sentence does not outweigh Perry's interest in avoiding unwanted medication, an interest especially great ``when the injection sets the prisoner directly on the road to execution.'' Involuntary medication was not part of Perry's sentence, nor is it generally authorized by confinement, the associations argue. Prior court decision support the idea that involuntary medical treatment is not permitted if it runs against a person's medical interests and is not necessary to treat a condition that may harm other people, they say. As for the argument that the medication would help Perry, any benefit ``would be both fleeting and purchased at the cost of his life,'' the associations said in a brief. Outside observers are split on their reaction to the case. Dr. Gary Glass, an associate psychiatry professor at Temple University and lecturer in law at Villanova University, said he personally hopes that the court would not allow execution of a person who is incompetent when not treated. But his ``utilitarian, practical'' answer is that nobody should be allowed to make a competent decision to avoid execution by becoming legally incompetent, he said. If a death sentence is imposed, ``people ought not to be able to use their mental health and illness to manipulate that decision,'' he said. Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Minnesota, calls it ``fundamentally wrong for any health care professional to give anybody psychiatric medication against their will for a non-therapeutic purpose.'' If authorities are intent on executing a man while he is sane in such cases, they should specify medication as part of the sentence and not pretend it is medical treatment, he said.
AP900906-0222 	X	American textile and fiber makers are talking tougher. They have dumped the celebrities who grinned as they flashed the ``Made in U.S.A.'' labels for the cameras in those old buy-American commercials. In a new round of ads that debut this weekend on NBC's telecast of the Miss America Pageant, they show shoppers making excuses for buying imports while workers cart their belongings outside a plant closing for good. In another commercial, a mother explains to her bewildered young son that they are moving because his father's plant shut down. Why did the plant close, the boy asks. ``Because a lot of people are buying clothes made in other countries, not ours,'' Mom replies. Welcome to the sober new world as seen by the Crafted With Pride in U.S.A. Council, a non-profit organization set up in 1984 to encourage sales of U.S.-made clothes and home furnishings, and its ad agency, Warwick Baker & Fiore. Robert E. Swift, executive director of the council, said the group decided on the new approach in reponse to surveys that indicate consumers are growing more concerned about their reduced standard of living. Imported clothing, for instance, accounts for nearly 60 percent of all clothing sales in the United States, he said. But when Americans are asked about imports, he said they usually cite the car market, where foreigners have captured only a one-third share. Swift said he hopes the ads get American consumers to think about what impact imports are having in apparel and furnishings as well. The council estimates that nearly 500,000 jobs have been lost in the U.S. apparel and textile industries since 1980. Swift said the new ads should make consumers aware that job losses and plant shutdowns not only hurt American workers, but hurt the community tax base and their own standard of living. Swift declined to say how much the council would spend over the next year to run the ads on television. But he said the new campaign will start off with more support than the council has spent in launching any earlier campaign. The celebrity campaign that kicked off the council's ``Made in U.S.A.'' campaign in 1985 was useful in calling attention to the quality and value of American-made products, Swift said. While imports' share of the clothes market rose to 59 percent last year from 47 percent in 1985, he said the pace at which the imports' share was rising has slowed considerably.
AP880527-0006 	X	Mathias Rust, the West German aviator who a year ago slipped across one of the world's most secure borders and landed a plane at Red Square, remains jailed at Lefortovo Prison with hopes fading for an early release. The dramatic May 28, 1987, flight shook the foundation of Soviet security and oiled the way for the ouster of Defense Minister Sergei L. Sokolov and Air Defense chief Alexander Koldunov, but Soviet citizens still grin at the audacity of the young pilot and his success in putting one over on the mighty Kremlin. Soviet jets scrambled when Rust crossed into restricted airspace over the republic of Estonia, but the Soviet Air Defense forces took no action to halt the flight. Then, with apparently no warning to security forces in the nation's capital, the single-engine Cessna swept toward the heart of Soviet power and buzzed Kremlin landmarks such as Lenin's tomb and Spassky Tower. Rust, now 20, was sentenced Sept. 4 to four years at a general-regime labor camp on charges of malicious mischief. By mutual consent with the Soviet government, he is serving his time at the infamous Lefortovo Prison in eastern Moscow, which in the past contained American journalist Nicholas Daniloff and U2 pilot Francis Gary Powers. A source close to the case, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Rust asked to remain at Lefortovo rather than transfer to a less restrictive penal institution because the little-used KGB facility is more easily accessible to his parents and West German diplomats who are allowed to make regular visits. At Lefortovo, Rust has been allowed more visits than he is officially entitled to. His parents, Karl-Heinz and Monika Rust, and his 16-year-old brother Ingo, have visited Lefortovo at least five times since June. Under Soviet corrections regulations, prisoners are allowed one visit every three months. A representative of the West German Embassy is allowed to visit once each month to bring mail, books and special foods to augment the prison diet. Rust's appeal of his four-year sentence was turned down late last year. The young amateur pilot from suburban Hamburg has issued a personal request for clemency that does not require a formal reply. To date, there has been no reply. Soviet officials have commented privately that Rust will likely serve at least half of his term, to show that the Kremlin does not take such stunts lightly and to discourage any similar incidents in the future. Rust was accused during his two-day trial of endangering the lives of thousands of airline passengers when he piloted his borrowed Cessna 172-B from Helsinki, Finland through the flight paths of foreign airliners headed for Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport. Witnesses testified that he could have injured some of the hundreds of pedestrians at Red Square on the cool, sunny evening when he landed. Rust told the court he felt ``remorse and deep repentance'' and never intended to endanger or insult anyone. Before landing in the square, Rust piloted his blue and white craft at a low altitude through more than 500 miles of closely guarded Soviet territory. The dramatic stunt was followed by a short-lived moment of glory for Rust as tourists and Muscovites crowded around the plane that came to a rest between St. Basil's Cathedral and the red-brick wall surrounding the Kremlin. They asked for the pilot's autograph and took his picture as he reclined against the fuselage before his arrest. Less than 48 hours later, the ruling Politburo met in special session and sent Sokolov into retirement and fired Koldunov for negligence.
AP880714-0118 	X	Sen. John H. Chafee has become the third Rhode Island politician in danger of losing his ballot position because of a minor problem on his candidacy papers. John J. Staradumsky, an independent candidate for Chafee's seat, has filed a formal objection to Chafee's candidacy, meaning the state Board of Elections must decide whether to throw Chafee off the ballot, board Chairman Joseph R. DiStefano said Wednesday. The two-term Republican senator listed his Warwick address on his filing form as 1128 Ives Road, while his voter registration card omits the house number. State law requires the two forms to match exactly. Similar discrepancies already have jeopardized the candidacies of Republican Rep. Claudine Schneider and Democratic gubernatorial candidate Bruce G. Sundlun. Gov. Edward D. DiPrete said at the time he would call a special session of the General Assembly if necessary to get them back on the ballot. Michael Ryan, a Chafee aide, said Wednesday homes on Ives Road were not numbered when Chafee registered to vote in 1953. ``We expect common sense to prevail, hopefully in all cases, but certainly in this one,'' Ryan said. The elections board will hear Chafee's case July 26. It has scheduled a July 25 hearing on the Schneider and Sundlun cases. If the board rules against Chafee, he would hae to run a write-in campaign against Democrat Richard A. Licht in the Nov. 8 general election. Chafee is unopposed for renomination. DiStefano has refused to predict what his board will do, but said it has ruled ``time and time again'' against lesser-known candidates who made similar mistakes. ``Everybody knows what the precedents are,'' he said. ``We've indicated that quite clearly.''
AP881230-0225 	X	One of the nation's longest and most bitter takeover battles formally ended Friday _ the last business day of the year _ with the $1.48 billion merger of Irving Bank Corp. with Bank of New York Co. Inc. The merger was approved by Irving's shareholders at a special meeting, the Bank of New York said. Bank of New York said it expected that the principal banking subsidiaries of the two holding companies, the Bank of New York and Irving Trust Co., will be merged in the first half of 1989. ``All our efforts will now be directed to forging both institutions into a major force in U.S. and worldwide banking,'' J. Carter Bacot, chairman of the merged company, said in a statement. The two banks ended a year-long feud Oct. 7, when Irving's board of directors voted to end its resistance and drop all lawsuits and anti-takeover measures. In return, Bank of New York sweetened its offer by about $200 million by slightly increasing the stock portion of its bid and adding stock warrants. The Federal Reserve Board removed the last formal obstacle to the merger Nov. 28 by approving the deal. The board originally gave conditional approval in February, extending it four times as Irving battled the takeover. The merger will nearly double Bank of New York's size, vaulting it close to the top 10 of the nation's largest banking companies. The two banks had a combined $47.8 billion in assets as of June 30. Bank of New York's bid, launched Sept. 25, 1987, was the first hostile takeover attempt among American banks.
AP880302-0113 	X	The doctor for three AIDS-exposed brothers who were ostracized in their hometown has retracted his diagnosis of AIDS-related complex for the oldest boy. Jerry Barbosa testified at a hearing Tuesday that he earlier made the diagnosis for 11-year-old Ricky Ray because he felt compelled to under a judge's order. AIDS-related complex, or ARC, often is a precursor to acquired immune deficiency syndrome. There is no known cure for AIDS. ``The way I interpreted the order, I had no choice but to label this patient as having ARC against my clinical judgment,'' Barbosa told U.S. Magistrate Elizabeth A. Jenkins. The purpose of Tuesday's hearing was to clarify earlier reports that the physician had diagnosed ARC in the youth weeks before reporting it to the court. On Jan. 29, U.S. District Judge Elizabeth Kovachevich modified an earlier order and required Barbosa to report the progress of ``any AIDS, AIDS symptomology, or other AIDS-related syndrome.'' Her wording prompted him to say in his Feb. 2 report that Ricky had developed ARC, Barbosa said. But Ricky has not exhibited physical symptoms necessary for such a finding, although the boy's blood tests might support an ARC diagnosis, the doctor said. He also cited April 1987 guidelines issued by the federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta that prohibit labeling any child under age 13 as having ARC. ``It doesn't mean much to the court that somebody has or doesn't have ARC,'' Ms. Jenkins said. ``When material changes in the boys' health occurs, it is not up to the court to try to look behind the medical reports to see what is there.'' When Ms. Kovachevich ruled Aug. 5, 1987, that the DeSoto County School system had to readmit the Ray brothers to regular classes, she ordered AIDS testing of the boys every six months and said any changes in their condition had to be reported to her. Ms. Jenkins told attorneys for the Rays and the school board to devise an improved way to keep the court informed about the hemophiliac brothers' medical conditions. The attorneys must submit the plan by Monday. Ricky, Robert, 10, and Randy, 8, were banned from regular classes after they tested positive for the AIDS antibody in August 1986. Doctors say the children were apparently exposed to the AIDS virus through infusions of blood products that aim to promote clotting. Soon after the boys began school in Arcadia last fall, amid a boycott and protests by other students' parents, an arsonist torched the Ray home. Since then, the family has moved to Sarasota, where the Ray children have attended public school without incident.
AP880816-0342 	X	Grain and soybean futures closed mostly lower Tuesday on the Chicago Board of Trade amid slack export demand and forecasts for showers and cooler temperatures in the Corn Belt later this week. Corn futures prices fell nearly 10 cents a bushel, the permitted daily limit. The corn market was the leader in a session that featured relatively light trading and wide price swings in the soybean pit. Soybean futures, which are limited to moves of 30 cents a bushel, have recently provided direction to the grain markets. But soybeans lost traders Tuesday to the lower-risk corn pit, said Steve Freed, a grain analyst in Chicago with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Despite a record-melting heat wave that threatens further damage to the drought-stressed soybean crop, Freed said speculators shied away from the soybean market when prices for near-month delivery approached $9 a bushel Tuesday morning. Meteorologists predicted cooler temperatures would begin moving into the Midwest on Thursday. The forecasts, plus a lack of substantial export business, left the markets with little bullish news. ``It's still a bullish market, but it's a market that has trouble finding itself on days like today,'' Freed said. At the close, wheat was 1{ cents to 3} cents lower with the contract for delivery in September at $3.90{ a bushel; corn was 4} cents to 9} cents lower with September at $2.87{ a bushel; oats were 4{ cents to 9} cents lower with September at $2.78{ a bushel; soybeans were 21 cents lower to 20 cents higher with August at $8.66 a bushel.
AP900912-0032 	X	Police today detained about 10,000 Hindu students on their way to a protest rally in the Kashmir Valley, where a day earlier 21 Moslems were killed in a reported shootout. The caravan of buses and trucks that was stopped in Udhampur, 45 miles north of Jammu, was headed toward Srinagar, where the Hindu activists of the All India Students' Federation had planned to hoist Indian flags. The government, fearing violence, had appealed to the Hindu activists not to hold their procession to Srinagar, a Moslem stronghold in Kashmir, the northern sector of Jammu-Kashmir state. The students, based in Jammu in a predominantly Hindu sector, had ignored the official pleas. The Hindu students are opposed to a Moslem secessionist movement that is attempting to get independence for Jammu-Kashmir state, the only Indian state in which the majority of the population is Moslem. The students were arrested without resistance, one official said, speaking under condition of anonymity. They were expected to be released after a few hours without charges being pressed. In Srinagar, shops were closed and traffic stayed off the roads today in response to a general strike call given by Moslem militants. The strike was to protest the deaths of 21 Kashmiris Tuesday during a shoot-out with paramiltary troops near Srinagar. The government claimed all the victims, including 17 people in a bus which exploded and caught fire, were militants. A government statement said the bus exploded when a stray bullet hit a pile of ammunition inside it. At least 1,175 people have ben killed in Kashmir since January, when the government started a crackdown on the secessionists. About 64 percent of Jammu-Kashmir's 6 million people are Moslems. About 82 percent of India's 880 million people are Hindus while Moslems account for 12 percent.
AP880829-0277 	X	Florida investor Paul Bilzerian has acquired 2 million shares of the Hadson Corp. as part of Hadson's agreement to purchase HRB Holdings Inc., a Singer Co. division, company officials said Monday. Stephen Houghton, president and chief executive officer of the Hadson Corp., said an agreement for the purchase of HRB Holdings Inc. from Bilzerian was announced in February and a final agreement was completed earlier this month. He said Hadson acquired the company for $137 million in cash and 2 million shares of common stock. Houghton said Bilzerian's acquisition of the stock was for investment purposes only. Bilzerian took Singer private earlier this year and has been selling off a number of its assets.
AP900317-0058 	X	Less than a year after Namibia was ablaze with a war and wracked by seemingly insurmountable ethnic differences, the territory is ready for a peaceful transition to independence from South Africa this week. The diverse people of this vast, arid land have set aside their weapons and begun working together to transform Africa's last colony into one of the continent's few democracies. Independence officially begins Wednesday. ``We confounded the doubters,'' said Sam Nujoma, the territory's designated president, who led the South-West Africa People's Organization during its 23-year guerrilla war against South African rule. Black nationalist guerrillas and right-wing whites who once fought each other have been preaching reconciliation in what has been a remarkably smooth approach to independence for Namibia, formerly known as South-West Africa. ``We have accepted that South-West Africa as we knew it will be replaced by an independent Namibia,'' said Jan de Wet, leader of the right-wing National Party. ``We are glad to offer our skills and resources to this country if we are welcome.'' SWAPO often was depicted by whites as a ``Marxist-terrorist'' organization during the war. But since winning U.N.-supervised elections in November, the leftist organization has made numerous compromises in an attempt to accommodate the 11 distinct ethnic groups that make up Namibia's 1.3 million people. SWAPO's support comes predominantly from the northern Ovambo tribe, but Nujoma also has named blacks who are not Ovambos to key positions to allay fears that SWAPO will be a tribal-based government. He also has appointed whites and businessmen from opposition parties to his Cabinet. ``The future government wants to ensure that ... policies and laws will be supported by the widest possible cross-section of the population,'' said Otto Herrigel, a German-descended Namibian who will serve as Nujoma's finance secretary. Opposition groups also have been in a conciliatory mood. Seven parties won seats in the elections, and they have sharp ideological differences. But within weeks, the 72-member constitutional assembly unanimously agreed on a democratic constitution that guarantees fundamental rights and regular elections. It also limits the president to two five-year terms, rare on a continent where most leaders serve for life. SWAPO, which was committed to socialism while in exile, now speaks more often of working with the white business community that controls the mining, farming and fishing industries. Those industries, along with South African aid, have made Namibia one of the few African countries to achieve an annual per capita income of $1,000. However, the wealth is in the hands of the 75,000 whites, who make up only 6 percent of the population. Meeting black expectations without alienating whites will be one of the biggest challenges facing the government. There have been no signs of a mass exodus by whites, who easily could go to white-ruled South Africa as thousands did when the United Nations announced Namibia's independence plan in 1978. The U.N. plan sat on the shelf for a decade as South Africa refused to relinquish control of the territory, which it captured from Germany during World War I. But in December 1988, South Africa agreed to grant independence to Namibia under a regional peace treaty. At the ceremony when the new Namibian constitution was adopted in November, several speakers said South Africa should take inspiration from Namibia's harmonious independence process. Many South Africans were relieved at the Western-style democratic constitution adopted by a constituent assembly in Namibia. But others said they would withhold judgment, since neighboring Zimbabwe also began its black majority rule with a democracy and British-inspired constitution. Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe is now in the process of turning the government into a one-party state. The long-delayed independence plan in Namibia almost collapsed the day it began _ last April 1. Hundreds of SWAPO guerrillas crossed into northern Namibia in violation of the U.N. plan, igniting three weeks of fighting. More than 300 guerrillas died, and 27 members of the South African-led security forces were killed. Since peace was restored, there has been sporadic violence. In September, Anton Lubowski, SWAPO's highest-ranking white member, was assassinated. But there have been no wide-scale outbreaks of violence, and the more than 6,000 U.N. civilian and military personnel in Namibia are scheduled to leave in early April. That will end the $450 million U.N. operation, the most extensive ever conducted by the United Nations.
AP880320-0101 	X	American soldiers practiced military maneuvers Sunday on a Honduran airstrip just 21 miles from the Nicaraguan border, but U.S. officials said the threat from Sandinista troops had subsided and combat appeared unlikely. Nicaragua formally protested a Honduran bombing raid on Sandinista positions Saturday as an unwarranted act of aggression. It has denied that its troops crossed the jungle-choked border dividing the nations.
AP880902-0201 	X	The archbishop of Canterbury, Robert Runcie, on Friday announced his his support of Roman Catholic calls for Christians to boycott a new American film about Jesus Christ. But a conservative London newspaper praised a ruling by a senior government law officer that the film, ``The Last Temptation of Christ,'' does not violate Britain's blasphemy law. ``Christians have been under attack for almost 2,000 years,'' the Daily Telegraph said in an editorial Friday. ``It is not emphatically a faith so shallow as to be put at risk by the frivolity of Hollywood.'' The film, which has raised angry protests in Britain, the United States, and other places, includes a scene in which Christ hallucinates about marrying prostitute Mary Magdalene . The movie by Martin Scorsese has been playing to packed theaters in the United States. It is due to be screened in British movie theaters starting Sept. 9. Runcie, the spiritual head of the Church of England and 70 million Anglicans worldwide, said Friday that parts of the movie cause ``great offense and distress.'' He said there were ``sensible arguments for wishing the film wasn't shown in this country.'' Asked about a call last month by Cardinal Basil Hume, the eader of 5.2 million Catholics in England and Wales, for Christians to avoid the movie, Runcie said: ``I think that is a reasonable position, and I would support him.'' Runcie spoke at London's Heathrow airport on his return with his wife Rosalind from a vacation in the United States. He told reporters he had not seen the film while in the United States but said, ``I have been reading the newspapers sometimes on holiday, and obviously there is much debate about it. ``I don't think that I shall see it (in Britain) .... It's not something that I want to see on the basis of what I've read and heard about it.'' A senior government official, Director of Public Prosecutions Allan Green, ruled Thursday that the movie does not violate Britain's blasphemy law. Activists opposed to the movie have said they will continue trying to get it banned in Britain. Mary Whitehouse, president of the National Viewers and Listeners Association, has said she would try to persuade local authorities to block screening of the movie. Theaters around the country operate under a system of local licencing.
AP880929-0219 	X	Up to 3,000 Olympics slides which were to make up the bulk of photographs in the next issue of Sports Illustrated magazine were stolen Thursday, officials said. ``It's the biggest athletic event of the year and this is our picture record of it. They're our life's blood,'' said Joe Marshall, director of photography for the magazine. The pictures were stolen from the front seat of a locked, parked van enroute Thursday to the magazine's offices in midtown Manhattan, said Louis Slovinsky, director of public affairs for Time Inc. Marshall said pictures often are hand delivered by staff members but were sent via an air freight company as the games continued in South Korea. The stolen slides, chosen from 50,000 pictures shot by nine magazine photographers on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, included pictures of shamed 100-meter sprinter Ben Johnson, Greg Louganis's second gold medal in diving and the U.S.-Soviet basketball game, Marshall said. Slovinsky said the magazine would pay an unspecified reward and ask no questions if the pictures were returned. ``These are extremely valuable pictures for Sports Illustrated, but they are of no value to anybody else,'' Slovinsky said. The slides are each clearly marked as belonging to Sports Illustrated and being from the 1988 Summer Olympics, he said. Slovinsky said photographs belonging to the Black Star Publishing Co. Inc., a photo agency, also were stolen from the truck.
AP880516-0048 	X	Here is a list of the political stories that have moved for this cycle:
AP900629-0220 	X	A policeman in the Medellin cartel's hometown goes to work each day with an assault rifle, a bulletproof vest and a prayer. The drug lords will pay $4,300 to anyone who kills him. So far this year, more than 130 have been slain. Policemen say they live on nerve and in fear of being the next victim. Some routinely arrive home with pistol drawn in case an assassin lurks in the shadows. Dozens of of the victims were murdered while off duty. Police in Medellin are part of a national force of 80,000 men, which is part of the military and under Defense Ministry jurisdiction. The government, which declared war on drug traffickers last year, has sent 1,800 reinforcements in recent weeks to augment the normal force of 2,600. The killings continue at an average of one a day in this city of 3 million, Colombia's second-largest. If the same percentage of police officers was killed in New York City, which has a force of 26,000, the total would surpass 1,000. An Associated Press reporter talked with 30 Medellin policemen and accompanied seven on a patrol of a dangerous part of Medellin. An officer pointed out the spots where six comrades had been killed in the past two months. ``I get scared out here,'' one said. ``I see a movement in the shadows or hear a motorcycle moving toward me and the hair stands up on the back of my neck. I wonder if this is it. I wonder if I'm the next victim.'' None wanted his name used, figuring it would be a death warrant. High-ranking Medellin police officials refused to be interviewed about the dangers their men face. The patrolmen said the drug cartel's tactics had caused 300 police resignations in three months and recruiting was difficult. ``I'm ready to quit if I don't get a transfer out of here soon,'' a 20-year-old policeman said. ``We're just statistics.'' He and the others said they were frightened, and exhausted by working up to 18 hours six days a week, but most said they would not quit. ``You can die of hunger, too,'' a 12-year veteran commented. Their families are destroyed along with the policemen. An officer's widow gets only half his $95 monthly salary as a pension, said a spokesman for the national police in Bogota. Three widows said they could not support their children on that. ``My children don't get milk, they don't get meat, they don't know what eggs taste like,'' Ruth Duque said. ``When they get sick, we just pray. There isn't any money for medicine.'' Mrs. Duque's situation is even worse because she gets no pension at all. Her husband was killed March 23, 1988, before the pension law was passed. She said she makes the equivalent of about $102 a month working in a drugstore. She feeds her son and daughter, aged 4 and 3, one meal a day of rice and beans. Colombia's minimum wage equals about $100 a month. A quart of milk costs 75 cents and a one-pound loaf of bread $1. Unemployment is over 30 percent in Medellin, according to sociologists at the local university. The government says the rate is 10 percent, but doesn't count thousands of people who mow lawns, work as sidewalk peddlers or have other part-time jobs. ``I've been looking for a job ever since my husband was killed,'' said Socorro Rua. Her husband was killed May 19 by a man who stuck a gun in his ribs on a crowded bus. Her 15-year-old daughter, Liliana, turned her head away and tears coursed down her cheeks. Mrs. Rua also has a 6-year-old son, Carlos. They live in an apartment complex built by the government for policemen. The shabby three-room apartment costs only $20 a month, but even that may be out of reach because officials have told her the pension paperwork will take a year. Another widow, Carmen Montoya, said she had high hopes for their children when her husband was alive, but ``now we just try to get by day to day. My little boy wanted a toy car for his birthday. I cried when he asked me, because I knew I couldn't afford it. They don't get anything at Christmas.'' ``My little girl used to chatter and sing all the time before her daddy was killed,'' she said. ``Now she just stares and hardly says a word. ``I asked the police department to pay for a psychologist to see her, but they told me there is no money for that.'' Mrs. Montoya has two children _ Lina, 5, and Alexander, 3. She receives about $80 a month because her husband had 20 years on the force.
AP881013-0333 	X	Air Wis Services Inc. rejected as inadequate a $121 million takeover bid from a Connecticut investment firm, but left the door open for a higher offer. The offer of $16.365 a share from Cove Capital Associates Inc. of Greenwich, Conn., is the fourth takeover bid for the airline holding company since last November. Cove represents Transmark USA Inc., an insurance holding company based in Jacksonville, Fla. The offer rejected Wednesday includes $14 a share in cash and $2.36{ in preferred stock. The Air Wis board of directors said it would reconsider its stance if a higher, all-cash offer were made. Air Wis officials questioned how much cash Cove and Transmark could bring to the table without borrowing against assets of Air Wis, whose Air Wisconsin subsidiary operates United Express airline. ``Your proposal to utilize a form of preferred stock to finance a significant part of your acquisition costs suggests to our board that Cove Capital and Transmark USA may not have sufficient resources to effect an acquisition of the company at a reasonable price without borrowing significantly against the company's assets,'' Air Wis President Preston Wilbourne told Cove. Wilbourne said an acquisition that involved heavy borrowing could impair Air Wis' plans to expand and to acquire new equipment, bring route cutbacks and cause defaults on existing financial agreements. Last November, a group headed by Citicorp Venture Capital and two former executives of United Airlines offered $11.50 a share for Air Wis. That was followed by a bid from former Air Wis chairman Arthur Hailand and John J. Louis Jr., a director, for $14 a share. Hailand and Louis later raised their bid to $17 a share, comprised of $14 in cash and $3 in debt. All three bids were rejected by the Air Wis board. Hailand was removed as chairman when the board turned down his first offer.
AP880910-0162 	X	President Reagan on Friday signed into law a measure that for the first time requires commercial fishing vessels to carry life rafts and other emergency equipment. The signing caps a three-year campaign for approval of safety regulations for an industry whose safety record is the worst in the United States. Rep. John Miller, R-Wash., who attended the private signing ceremony and was one of the original sponsors of the measure, said Reagan called it a ``good bill that will save lives.'' The measure requires that commercial fishing vessels carry life rafts, survival suits, emergency transmitters and medical supplies. Among the leading proponents of the legislation were Robert and Peggy Barry, whose son Peter drowned when a 70-year-old fishing vessel from Seattle sank off Alaska in the summer of 1985. The vessel did not carry life rafts, radio equipment or survival suits, and investigators concluded the ship should not have been at sea. ``The fact the bill was finally signed into law is a great relief to all of us who have lost relatives or friends in the fishing industry,'' said Robert Barry. He said more needs to be done, including manadatory inspections on a regular basis, licensing of operators and training of crews. An average of about 80 fishermen die annually in accidents involving commercial fishing vessels, according to Coast Guard statistics. Rep. Mike Lowry, D-Wash., said the rate of accidental deaths for commercial fishermen is twice that of miners, whose occupation is the second most hazardous.
AP880424-0069 	X	Sexual harassment of women in the Marine Corps remains a problem that can be remedied by emphasizing that the practice will not be tolerated, according to a Marine Corps report released Sunday. The Task Force on Women in the Marine Corps said existing directives and the corps' primary grievance system are ``appropriate tools to implement Marine Corps policy on this issue.'' However, the commandant of the corps must convey that sexual harassment will not be tolerated in the service, according to the executive summary of the final report. ``The (commandant) will improve sexual harassment awareness training in formal schools and at the recruit depots,'' said the report, which will be released Monday. The task force, formed in September 1987 at the request of then-Secretary of Navy James Webb, said the corps did not have a ``significant problem'' with fraternization. ``Fraternization is not a gender-specific issue,'' the report said. ``No corrective action was recommended.'' In February, Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci responded to a Pentagon report by ordering expanded job opportunities for women in the Marine Corps and the Air Force, including the assignment of female Marines to embassy guard duty. Women account for about 10 percent of the nation's 2.1 million military personnel. By law, they are excluded from combat. The content of the Pentagon report provided the basis of the Marine Corps report released Sunday. The report also recommended certain steps to improve the quality of life for female Marines, including solving the problem of shortage in uniform items and lengthy delays in filling special orders, ensuring full investigation when homosexual conduct is suspected and allowing a pregnant Marine to request a 30-day delay in the notification of her commander by the medical officer. The task force also recommended that the Navy surgeon general review the policy regarding the assignment of obstetricians and gynecologists to combat service units, and the commandant review the number of women medical and dental personnel assigned to various units. The Navy surgeon general also should publish information regarding oral contraceptives for men, recreational programs should be expanded and additional child care centers be built, the report said. The commandant approved all the recommendations with the exception of pregnancy notification and oral contraceptives for men.
AP880725-0011 	X	Comic Phyllis Diller says she's had a habit of dressing as a nun in public for the past decade to avoid being recognized, especially when she's out shopping. ``People tend to leave nuns alone, so I'm able to do my shopping dressed that way. It prevents people from asking me for my autograph,'' Diller said in this week's People magazine. ``I'm able to buy all the crazy things I like to wear because I pretend to be the nun in charge of the drama department at Marymount College, so they think it's for our little play,'' said the 71-year-old Diller, who is appearing in the musical ``Nunsense'' at San Francisco's Marines Memorial Theater.
AP901115-0147 	X	Federal authorities said Thursday they had smashed a 30-member cocaine-smuggling ring whose leader buried $43 million in drug money on a farm in Puerto Rico. The case caused a sensation last spring when it was disclosed that residents of the Vega Baja coastal area had unearthed barrels filled with $10, $20 and $100 bills and kept their windfall secret for weeks. In all, residents made off with $11 million, which they put in their bank accounts and bought everything from VCRs to luxury homes before the authorities stepped in, according to the FBI. In a statement Thursday, the FBI said it had arrested or issued warrants for 30 alleged members of the drug ring that amassed the buried treasure in drug-running operations from Colombia since 1985. Fifteen suspects were charged Thursday in U.S. District Court in San Juan and four others were already in jails in Puerto Rico and New York, said FBI spokeswoman Juana Arriazola. Another suspect arrested Thursday in New York was awaiting extradition, and two others were charged in Puerto Rico on Wednesday, she said. Among the eight suspects still at large were reputed drug kingpin Ramon Torres Gonzalez, on whose farm the cash-filled barrels were hidden, and Iris Janet Concepcion Perez, alleged co-leader of the drug ring, the FBI said. All 30 are accused under a 27-count federal indictment with criminal enterprise and conspiracy to import and distribute controlled substances. The indictment was returned Nov. 1 by a federal grand jury in Puerto Rico. If convicted, the suspects face a minimum penalty of 60 years in prison and a maximum sentence of life in prison, as well as a fine of up to $10 million. U.S. Magistrate Jesus Castellano released seven of the defendants who came into court Thursday on bail totaling $625,000 and jailed the others without bail. He set a court hearing for Nov. 21. The indictment alleges that Torres and his drug organization had imported and distributed more than 4.5 tons of Colombian cocaine into Puerto Rico and the United States since 1985. William Mitchell, head of the San Juan office of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, said most of the cocaine was shipped to Puerto Rico by way of neighboring Dominican Republic. ``Some (cocaine) was for the local market, but the majority went to the states, principally New York and Philadelphia,'' he said. The drug ring amassed a fortune, of which $43 million in cash was buried in 22 plastic drums on Torres' 9.7-acre farm in Vega Baja, about 35 miles east of San Juan, authorities said. The FBI got involved in the case in April after authorities learned that local residents had been using large amounts of cash to buy houses, cars, VCRs, motorcycles, boats and jewelry. Residents took $11 million of the money before Torres allegedly removed and hid the remaining $32 million, which has not been found, the FBI said. The FBI said it had confiscated $4.5 million in cash and property purchased with the stolen money. None of the residents were arrested.
AP901019-0112 	X	The family of Gen. Michel Aoun drove to Beirut's airport today to board a flight for Paris, but France and Lebanon remained locked in a dispute over the fate of the defeated rebel commander. Witnesses said a convoy of six French Embassy cars accompanied by four Lebanese military police jeeps left the embassy compound in the eastern suburb of Hazmiyeh and drove to the airport in Syrian-controlled south Beirut. Two Air France executive jets had flown in earlier to evacuate Aoun's wife, Nadia, and their three daughters - Mireille, 22, Claudine, 19, and Chantal, 17 -and transport them to France, where they will live in exile. Aoun remained in the French Embassy, where he has been granted asylum. The Lebanese government has refused to allow Aoun to leave the country, insisting that he face trial for a variety of crimes and the alleged theft of at least $75 million from the ailing state treasury. Earlier today, President Elias Hrawi accused Aoun - who took refuge in the French Embassy with his family on Saturday - of ordering his troops to continue fighting even after he broadcast his message of surrender. ``I'm in the French Embassy. The outcome (of the battle) will be favorable to us. Go on. Go on fighting,'' Hrawi quoted Aoun as telling his forces last week in a radio message. ``These were the orders Aoun radioed to his forces, even after his message of surrender was broadcast,'' Hrawi said in remarks released by his office. Hrawi's government also denied press reports that scores of Aoun's defeated soldiers were massacred after surrendering to the Lebanese and Syrian forces who ended Aoun's 11-month mutiny on Saturday. Prime Minister Salim Hoss said France's call for a United Nations investigation of reports of such killings was based on ``biased rumors.'' The Defense Ministry said in a communique that reports that Aoun's troops were massacred after surrendering were ``absolutely baseless.'' The communique said Aoun's troops who died ``fell in the military operation.'' The eight-hour, air-and-ground assault killed 350 people and wounded 1,200 by police count. Police said the fatalities included at least 100 Syrian soldiers. But The New York Times, citing doctors at East Beirut hospitals and Syrian officers, said in today's editions that the death toll was at least 750. Military sources speaking on condition of anonymity described ``ferocious hand-to-hand fighting'' between the advancing Syrian troops and Aoun's forces on the eastern edge of his 80-square-mile enclave in the Christian heartland. One source said that after Aoun's address was broadcast, one of his officers told the Syrians he was surrendering, but then opened fire when the Syrians came forward. The Syrians responsed by pounding the Aoun forces' position with rocket launchers and tank cannons, then stormed it with tank-led forces, according to the source. The Defense Ministry's communique came a few hours after France urged U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar to investigate reports of summary executions of Aoun's vanquished troops in the enclave northeast of Beirut. French and British press reports said about 100 of Aoun's 15,000 troops were killed after surrendering. The French Foreign Ministry said France was trying to obtain information about the reports but also wanted a U.N. probe. French opposition leaders today demanded tougher French action in response to the allegations. One of them - Alain Juppe, secretary-general of the conservative Rally for the Republic party - said the government should demand an emergency session of the U.N. Security Council in order to force the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon. A police spokesman in Lebanon said on Thursday that by the time police examined the bodies of the slain troops they found ``no solid evidence that the soldiers were liquidated.'' ``None of the corpses we examined had hands tied behind the back and very few of the dead soldiers were hit in the skulls with bullets,'' said the spokesman, who could be named in line with regulations. Associated Press photographer Ahmed Azakir, who visited the government hospital in suburuban Baabda on Tuesday, reported seeing more than 50 bodies of Aoun's troops in the morgue. He said none had their hands tied. Most of Aoun's troops declared allegiance to Hrawi's army under Gen. Emile Lahoud, a Maronite Catholic like both the president and the defeated general. The leftist newspaper As-Safir - in a front-page, eight-column headline - said the call for a U.N. investigation was part of a French effort to ``distort the operation of unifying Beirut.''
AP901128-0100 	X	House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt said today he opposes the use of military force in the near future to oust Iraq from Kuwait, urging President Bush to follow a policy of ``patient strength.'' ``Stay the course. Stick with the sanctions. Do not try to mount an offensive military action in the near future,'' the Missouri Democrat said in a speech. Gephardt's opposition to any congressional resolution authorizing use of force is the first public break among the Democratic leadership, who said last week that Bush would have a better chance of winning congressional approval for the use of force in the Persian Gulf if the United Nations first backed such a move. His remarks came as the Senate Armed Services Committee began its second day of hearings on the prospects of U.S. military action against Iraq. Democrats on Tuesday demanded that Bush give Congress the same opportunity as the United Nations to debate a resolution authorizing military force. Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger told the panel today he did not believe the United States could sustain nearly 430,000 troops in the gulf for an extended period of time. ``The issue in Arabia is not American staying power but the host country's domestic stability. Conditions in the gulf are not even remotely comparable to Europe or Northeast Asia,'' Kissinger said. The former Nixon administration official contended that the sanctions and the possible use of military force are not successive phases of the same policy. ``They will prove mutually exclusive because by the time it is evident that sanctions alone cannot succeed, a credible military option will probably no longer exist,'' Kissinger said. Gephardt, in a speech to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said, ``Before we resort to offensive military action, Congress and the American people will need to be convinced that the policy of pressure, isolation and sanctions has failed. President Bush has yet to make such an argument,'' ``The policy of patient strength is, I think, our best hope,'' Gephardt said. Gephardt made his comments while two former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff bolstered the Democratic challenge to Bush to give United Nations sanctions time to work. ``My main concern with this latest scheduled reinforcement isn't that we might choose to fight, but rather that the deployment might cause us to fight - perhaps prematurely and perhaps unnecessarily,'' David C. Jones told the Armed Services Committee. Both Jones and retired Adm. William Crowe said the sanctions are the best option at this time and expressed concern about the long-term effect of military action in the Middle East. ``I counsel patience. War is not neat, it's not tidy. It's a mess,'' Crowe said at the hearing. President Bush's press secretary, Marlin Fitzwater, declined to respond directly to the statements by Gephardt and the former chairmen of the joint chiefs. ``Obviously there are going to be different opinions,'' Fitzwater told reporters. Fitzwater said Bush does not plan to ask Congress for authority to launch hostilities under the War Powers Act. The president maintains he has the authority to take such action with or without congressional approval. In later testimony today, Crowe said he saw no ``significant breaks'' in the international sanctions and urged the administration and Congress to give them a year to 18 months to take effect. ``The issue is not whether an embargo will work, but whether we have the patience to let it take effect,'' Crowe said. The retired admiral said he believed the American people, who waited out 40 years of the Cold War, have the patience for the sanctions. ``It would be a sad commentary if Saddam Hussein, a two-bit tyrant who sits on 17 million people and possesses a gross national product of $40 billion, proved to be more patient than the United States, the world's most affluent and powerful nation,'' Crowe said. Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., the president pro tem of the Senate, agreed that the American people have the patience. ``When we view grandmothers and grandfathers who lost not one but two, three grandchildren and they feel we took the action too hastily, I think we'll all have the time to be sorry,'' Byrd said. ``The American people are willing to sacrifice,'' he added. On Tuesday, committee chairman Sam Nunn, D-Ga., told the hearing that an expected U.N. resolution authorizing the use of military force to eject Iraq from Kuwait ``is not a substitute for fully informing the American people of our own nation's objectives and strategy.'' Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., the No. 2 Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, told reporters he believed Bush should send an emissary to Baghdad to make sure Saddam isn't ``confused'' about the U.S. position. While agreeing that no talk of compromise can be made until Iraq withdraws from Kuwait, Hamilton said ``a strong argument can be made to talk to him directly or indirectly. I don't see we have a lot to lose.''
AP900110-0094 	X	Lt. Gen. Basilio Olara Okello, a Ugandan rebel leader who had been living in exile in Khartoum for four years, has died from diabetes complicated by malaria. He was 61. His family did not say when he died. Okello participated in the five-year civil war in Uganda that was ended by President Yoweri Museveni in 1986. After Okello fled to Sudan, Museveni accused him of human rights abuses in the Luwero triangle area near the Ugandan capital of Kampala, where thousands of civilians were reported to have been massacred in the early 1980s. Some Ugandan rebels said as many as 300,000 had been massacred during the civil war. Okello was the general commander of the Ugandan People's Democratic Army, the military wing of the Ugandan People's Democratic Movement, which has been fighting Museveni since he took over power. Okello's family said he would be buried in Khartoum, at a time to be determined. They said they feared that Kampala authorities would treat him as a criminal and not give him a proper burial.
AP881219-0097 	X	A fire department medical truck hit an 8-year-old boy who darted between parked cars, but the driver saved the boy's life by resuscitating him, officials said. Thomas Adkins, 8, was injured so severely in Saturday's accident that he went into cardiac arrest, police said. The driver, Gary E. Warren, 36, the second in command of the Baltimore County Fire Department's medical division, administered cardiopulmonary resuscitation and saved the child's life, police said. The boy was reported in stable condition Monday at Johns Hopkins Hospital. He sustained two broken legs, a broken collarbone, head and stomach trauma and bruised lungs. Warren was ticketed for driving 43 mph in a 25 mph zone. ``He had been through a lot in the emergency medical technician field,'' said Officer John Emerick of the police traffic investigation unit. ``But actually hitting that child accidentally really tore him up.''
AP880321-0134 	X	Here are the latest, unofficial results in the Democratic presidential primary in Puerto Rico on Sunday.
AP880812-0198 	X	Actress Anne Ramsey, whose grotesque character in ``Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Oscar nomination and a following in the twilight of her career, died of throat cancer. She was 59. Her husband of 34 years, actor Logan Ramsey, was at her side when she died Thursday evening at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, where she had been for about a week, hospital spokeswoman Peggy Shaff said Friday. The actress often appeared with her husband in projects, including Clint Eastwood's ``Any Which Way You Can,'' scheduled to air Friday night on CBS-TV. She appeared in two Barbra Streisand films, ``Up the Sandbox'' and ``For Pete's Sake'' and played Nick Nolte's addled mother in ``Weeds.'' In ``Goonies,'' she uttered the line, ``Put that kid's hand in the blender and hit puree.'' Mrs. Ramsey's television credits included roles in ``The Young and the Restless,'' guest appearances on ``Hill Street Blues,'' ``Night Court'' and ``Knight Rider,'' and movies-of-the-week roles in ``White Mama,'' ``The Boy in the Plastic Bubble,'' ``Blind Ambition'' and ``Marilyn.'' However, it was her role opposite actor-director Danny DeVito and Billy Crystal in the dark comedy about matricide, ``Throw Momma From the Train,'' that put her on the fast track. After 37 years in show business, she became famous as the actress with the face of a mother no one could love. ``Some people say I'm not a very pretty woman, but I'm a very beautiful woman inside,'' she said when asked about her appearance. As the murder-provoking harridan of ``Throw Momma,'' the diminutive hunch-shouldered actress played her most tormented and tormenting role. DeVito, as brow-beaten son Owen Lift, tries to arrange a swap of murder victims: He will kill his writing teacher's ex-wife if the teacher (Crystal) kills his mother. ``She became such a cult hero to young people after `Throw Momma' that the kids wouldn't leave her alone. But she loved kids. She enjoyed it all,'' said her publicist, Stan Rosenfield. ``I loved that woman. I loved everything about her,'' DeVito said. ``I was so delighted over the success she achieved over the past year. She was a woman of courage and should be admired by all.'' Mrs. Ramsey was nominated for an Academy Award for ``Throw Momma,'' but lost to Olympia Dukakis of ``Moonstruck.'' She will be seen in four still-to-be-released films: ``Dr. Hackenstein,'' ``Scrooge,'' ``Good Ole Boy'' and ``Homer and Eddie.'' It was the removal of part of her tongue during throat cancer surgery three years ago that gave her the speech impediment evident in ``Throw Momma From the Train.'' She began chemotherapy treatments when the cancer recurred in April. During filming of ``Throw Momma,'' Mrs. Ramsey was undergoing oral surgery and was enduring intense pain, said DeVito. He said the actress never asked to be excused from work. In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ramsey is survived by a brother and sister, Rosenfield said. A private burial was planned in Omaha, Neb., but the family kept the date and location secret, Rosenfield said. A public memorial service will be held Aug. 20 at St. Michael & All Angels' Episcopal Church in Studio City, he said.
AP880902-0198 	X	A television station Friday accidentally broadcast an emergency bulletin, prompting immediate calls from viewers, an official of the station said. Oran Gough, director of operations for Fox Broadcasting Co. affiliate WTTE, said the bulletin telling viewers to stand by for emergency information ran for about 30 seconds before it was disovered. ``A guy put the wrong tape in the machine,'' Gough said. ``Obviously, we didn't do it on purpose.'' Gough said the message, broadcast during the movie ``Send Me No Flowers,'' is a standard emergency announcement that television stations are required to have as part of the Emergency Broadcast System. The message includes the phrase ``Stand by for emergency information.'' Gough said the announcement was interrupted when the mistake was discovered, and the station resumed the movie with a superimposed message that the bulletin was broadcast in error. He said he did not know how many people called the station. ``We got calls from people right after it happened. They wanted to know for sure that it wasn't for real,'' he said.
AP880826-0212 	X	A defendant in what is believed to be the longest federal criminal trial in American history wanted special consideration because of his sleep disorder, so he asked the judge about his ``sleeping motion.'' ``I thought we had put that to bed,'' U.S. District Judge Harold A. Ackerman replied to the laughter and groans of the defendants and attorneys in his Newark courtroom. On another day, Ackerman angered some when he called one motion ``creative nonsense at best.'' Ackerman, 60, spent nearly two years with the Herculean task of handling the U.S. v. Accetturo, et al. case. The trial ended Friday when the jury, after 21 months of proceedings but only 14 hours of deliberations, acquitted all 20 defendants of racketeering charges. The defendants, alleged to be members of the Lucchese crime family, had been charged with organized crime activities in New Jersey. During the trial, 20 litigators, including some of New Jersey's most highly regarded lawyers, and two defendants representing themselves filled Ackerman's courtroom. He acted as referee to a throng of egos, and sometimes one of his toughest tasks was just keeping the courtroom quiet. He made more than 100 rulings on legal motions. Legal papers from the case fill 15 feet of file drawers. Ackerman's judicial record includes a landmark decision in a civil racketeering case brought by the government against Teamsters Local 560. In 1984, Ackerman ruled that the Union City local had been dominated by organized crime for a quarter century and placed it under a trustee's control, the first such action in the nation. Earlier this year, because of comments he had made in news reports in his typically outspoken fashion, ousted union officials sought to have Ackerman removed from the case. The 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals refused. At about the same time, the appellate court was considering another Ackerman matter. The judge had ordered a lawyer and his firm back into the Lucchese trial after a key defendant's attorney contracted cancer. The lawyer fought his appointment in appeals to the U.S. Supreme Court and lost. Along the way, though, the 3rd Circuit mildly chided Ackerman for the ``leisurely pace'' of the trial. The judge then lengthened trial days and reduced delays. Ackerman attended Seton Hall University and Rutgers University, where he received his law degree in 1951. The former sportswriter served as a judge in the state Division of Workmen's Compensation and was a state judge in Union County before President Carter nominated him for U.S. District Court in 1980.
AP901015-0028 	X	Guy Hunt became Alabama's first Republican governor of this century in a 1986 landslide that his critics viewed as a fluke. In a bid for re-election, Hunt is locked in a close race against Democratic challenger Paul Hubbert, executive secretary of the 67,000-member state teachers' union. Hunt is trying to put his name in the history books alongside George Wallace as the only Alabama governors elected to two straight terms. Hubbert is trying to become the first National Education Association member elected governor of a state, according to NEA records. Hubbert has tapped the state teachers' union's political war chest and its state-wide volunteer network. Several top aides to former governor Wallace also are working in the Hubbert campaign. Hunt has warned business interests that Hubbert is a pro-union candidate who would carry out a liberal agenda. Former President Reagan visited Alabama to attend a Hunt fundraiser and rally. Hubbert says the governor of Alabama is elected by the white, middle-class, working male and that by watching what pickup trucks carry ``as far as bumper stickers are concerned, you'll see what direction the race is going.'' But ``the guy in the pickup truck ... I think he's more of a Hunt voter than a Hubbert voter,'' says Margaret Latimer, a political science professor at Auburn University. Hunt, a north Alabama fruit farmer and a Primitive Baptist preacher, was Reagan's campaign chairman in Alabama in 1976 and 1980. He never went to college and sold Amway products while struggling with a six-figure debt left from a losing 1978 campaign for governor. A bitter Democratic primary four years ago alienated many traditional Democratic voters and propelled Hunt from GOP obscurity to victor. Like Wallace of the 1960s, Hunt bristles at criticism of the state. In June, he seethed at a national magazine article that depicted Alabama as chained to a political history preventing it from enjoying New South prosperity, tax reform and educational advancement. In contrast, Hubbert says Alabama must recognize it rivals many Third World countries in its pockets of poverty, infant mortality rates and dismal health care in backwater communities. Hubbert, also from rural Alabama, holds a doctorate in education. He became known as ``governor'' in the 1970s by building the biracial teachers' union into a major political force. Despite his ties to liberal and progressive wings in the Alabama Democratic Party, Hubbert has billed himself as fiscally conservative and tough on crime. The ethics of both candidates are a campaign issue. Democrats produced a check showing that Hunt's campaign organization paid a personal mortgage note held by Hunt and his wife. Hunt said the mortgage was tied to debts left over from his losing 1978 campaign. Hubbert said the Hunt camp pilfered a document from Hubbert's headquarters. The document says the Democratic nominee should focus on the question: ``Is Guy Hunt a crook?'' Hubbert is running a ``dirty tricks'' campaign, Hunt asserts. Hunt ran an attack ad showing Hubbert sitting in a car with his top associate, a black political organizer from the Alabama Education Association. The ad ``reminded me of the campaigns of the early'' Wallace years, said political science professor Latimer. Deliberately or not, she believes the Hunt ad ``will play racist.'' The governor's campaign press secretary says the ad is simply an attempt to point out Hubbert's base of support, the state teachers' union. Hubbert's campaign is his first race for statewide political office and it comes one year after he received the liver of a 15-year-old boy in a transplant operation. A Hunt supporter has injected the issue of Hubbert's health into the campaign. ``I've had doctors tell me that anybody who has a liver transplant can become very sick, very quickly,'' said former state attorney general Charlie Graddick. Hubbert, 54, is ``healthy as a horse,'' retorted Hubbert spokesman Michael Tucker. ``We're seeing an attack by a thoroughly discredited hatchet man.'' Graddick switched to the Republican Party after unsuccessfully seeking to become the Democratic gubernatorial nominee in the bitterly contested 1986 primary.
AP900516-0249 	X	Ames Department Stores officials, struggling to revive the ailing discount retail chain, say a new $250 million loan agreement is the first step toward restoring confidence in the company. ``This is what it's going to take to start this company on the road to recovery,'' said Michael Cook, the lead attorney representing Ames in hearings in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, where the credit was approved Tuesday. Ames also said it had cut the number of store closings planned immediately from 74 to 33, but said it still is reviewing its operations and could close more stores later. The nation's fourth-largest retailer filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code on April 25 after many suppliers who had not been paid for earlier deliveries stopped shipping merchandise. The company also was unable to get a new credit agreement from its lenders to ease a cash flow crunch. Officials said the new $250 million line of credit will allow the company to pay vendors on time and keep merchandise coming into its 680 stores. ``I believe it was what we needed to hear to give the trade (vendors) the security to feel free to ship us the goods we need,'' said Ames President George Granoff. The agreement approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Howard C. Buschman III allows Ames to borrow up to $250 million from Chemical Bank. Buschman authorized the financing after a group of 33 banks withdrew its objection to the plan. In his order, the judge said Ames did not have sufficient working capital to finance its operations. ``Absent such availability, the debtors cannot supply their retail stores with the inventory they need in order to ensure adequate sales levels and continued customer loyalty,'' Buschman said. Stephen L. Pistner, Ames' new chief executive officer, confidently predicted the company would make a comeback with the new financing. ``If we want to save this company, it takes money and competent business. I know how to do the rest,'' Pistner said. Buschman postponed a final hearing on Pistner's appointment as CEO until May 24. Creditors had asked for more time to review terms of his contract, which could pay him up to $8 million in salary, bonuses and benefits over three years. A bank group headed by New York's Citibank withdrew its objection to the $250 million loan after reaching an agreement with Ames early Tuesday. Ronald DeKoven, an attorney for the banks, said the agreement allows the banks to split with the company $91 million in cash collateral Ames has in its account. He said the agreement also resolves a dispute between Ames and the bankers over outstanding letters of credit totaling $65 million. Ames owes the Citibank group about $450 million. The banks had objected to Ames' request to borrow the further $250 million because Chemical's loan would have a higher repayment priority than the Citibank group's debt. Antonio Alvarez, a principal in a New York consulting firm that helped Ames negotiate the loan with Chemical, told the judge that the company has been unable to convince vendors to ship goods. He said if the trend continued, the company could see sales drop 40 percent or more. The court earlier had approved $25 million in credit from Chemical Bank. Ames, which claims it has been losing more than $10 million a week, said it needed the additional $225 million to pay vendors and assure the company of merchandise for the critical back-to-school and Christmas sale seasons. ``The company has literally been bleeding to death,'' said Cook. An attorney representing a committee of Ames creditors said the group was satisfied with the new financing arrangement. ``Our committee did want this approved, because the company needs the money to keep operating,'' said the attorney, John M. Friedman Jr. ``I think this will be a big help in getting back to a sense of normalcy with the vendors.'' Also Tuesday, Ames said it lost $228 million, or $6.41 a share, in the year that ended Jan. 27. The loss, which the company predicted last month, compared with earnings of $42 million, or $1.07 a share, in 1989.
AP900115-0130 	X	Jesse Jackson, declaring that statehood for the District of Columbia was a ``mainstream'' issue, launched a new effort Monday to gain the district's admittance to the union. ``D.C. statehood is a mainstream issue,'' Jackson said. ``We need to go to work ... mobilizing people all over the country. We want democracy and not tyranny.'' Jackson said the campaign, which began on the national holiday honoring slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King, ``would give substance to the dream'' that King espoused. Jackson, who moved to the district last year, was joined at the opening of the Rainbow Coalition's D.C. Statehood office by local and national politicans, local labor leaders and mayoral hopeful Sharon Pratt Dixon. The campaign will focus on persuading those who voted for Jackson in the 1988 Democratic presidential primaries to rally behind the statehood effort, the two-time presidential hopeful said. Roughly 7 million voters backed Jackson in the primaries. The civil rights leader said he has already met with Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas S. Foley to push the statehood issue. He said statehood supporters will write to each member of Congress and senator by Feb. 1 to determine who supports the idea. The Republican and Democratic parties will also be asked to help, and Jackson expressed confidence that he will be able to meet with President Bush to discuss the statehood issue. ``Surely, if he can send our men and women to fight and die for democracy in Panama, he will not deny democracy where he lives,'' Jackson said. ``If Mr. Bush can stand for Puerto Rican statehood, surely he can stand for D.C. statehood, too.'' In his State of the Union address last January, Bush promised to have party officials explore the possibility of making Puerto Rico a state. Democratic National Committee Chairman Ron Brown, a former Jackson aide and D.C. resident, noted that statehood for the nation's capital was a plank in the 1988 Democratic platform. ``We'll be behind it,'' said Brown. ``We will be putting our resources behind this _ mostly organizational help.'' Jackson has been rumored as a possible mayoral candidate, but has publicly said he would not oppose Mayor Marion Barry in the upcoming election. Barry indicated he may include funds for two ``shadow'' senators and a ``shadow'' representative in the budget he will send to the city council next month. Those elected to the largely ceremonial, non-voting positions would lobby for statehood in Congress. The district currently has one, non-voting delegate to the House of Representatives.
AP900729-0064 	X	PORT-OF-SPAIN, Trinidad (AP) _ Looters hauled away carloads of television sets and other appliances while vigilante squads guarded some homes Sunday during the chaos of an armed uprising by Moslem extremists. Fires broke out in several parts of the capital, Port-of-Spain, and a thick cloud of acrid smoke hung over the city. A government-imposed curfew took effect in mid-afternoon, and the streets were deserted _ except for looters. ``Everybody is trying to secure themselves because people don't know what's going to happen,'' said Trinidanian Ian Mckenzie, who was watching looters on the outskirts of Port-of-Spain. ``We don't want our country this way. We are a democratic country.'' In middle-class and upper-class neighborhoods, residents banded together to stave off attacks. Several homes in the Westmoorings suburb, about six miles northwest of the capital, were ransacked, and residents fenced off the area to keep intruders away. A witness said he said two men _ armed with 12-gauge shotguns and a .38-caliber revolver _ trying to shoot open a large safe by the side of a road. Widespread looting broke out along the Churchill-Roosevelt highway, the main artery between the airport and the capital. People pulled their cars up to warehouses and filled them with refrigerators, televisions and radios. Supermarkets, pharmacies, clothing, hardware and appliance stores were systematically stripped by convoys of vehicles. Looting also spread outside the capital to the villages of Barataria, San Juan, Mount Hope and El Socorro. Anglican Bishop Clive Abdullah broadcast an appeal over government-run radio for looters to stop. ``My heart goes out to those who are hungry and have to enter places to take foodstuffs. I can perhaps ask God's forgiveness for this,'' he said. ``But when you line up a convoy of vehicles to take away items like refrigerators, television sets and videos, that is not right.'' Army and police patrolled downtown Port-of-Spain around the Parliament building, known as Red House, where Prime Minister Arthur Robinson was being held hostage by black Moslem rebels. But in many parts of the city, no police were visible. Some people kept an eye out for police while friends looted stores. On Saturday, a witness in the Picadilly area of eastern Port-of-Spain said about 50 policemen fired shots into the air to stop the looters. But people ignored them and continued to plunder stores.
AP900709-0124 	X	The Environmental Protection Agency outlined hazardous waste cleanup procedures and standards on Monday that it said could cost private industry as much as $42 billion to carry out. EPA administrator William K. Reilly called the plan ``a pragmatic approach for correcting existing problems'' and said it will ensure ``to the extent practical'' prevention of releases that might threaten human health and the environment. The proposed standards and procedures, affecting a wide range of industries and federal facilities regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, will be published later this month in the Federal Register. The public will have 60 days from publication date to comment on them. Public hearings have been scheduled in San Francisco and Washington, D.C. in October. EPA said the new regulations would affect 3,000 to 4,000 facilities, including several hundred owned by the federal government. The agency estimated it could cost privately owned facilities between $7 billion and $42 billion to meet the requirements. The price tag for federal facilities would total $3 billion to $18 billion, EPA said in a statement. ``The scope of the work that needs to be done under this program underscores the value of preventing, rather than having to clean up, pollution,'' Reilly said. The wide range of the cost estimates is due to markedly varied conditions from site to site involving uncertain levels of ground water monitoring and cleanup, the agency said. EPA said its plan allows corrective actions to be tailored to site-specific conditions and sets health-based standards for the cleanup of pollutants. The plan also contains requirements on how wastes must be stored, treated or disposed of during cleanups. Remedies would have to be consistent with those required under the agency's Superfund cleanup program. Industries affected would include petroleum refiners, wood preservers, metal finishers and auto manufacturers. Further information on the proposal can be obtained from EPA by calling 1-800-424-9346.
AP900212-0148 	X	Several unions went on strike Monday, including teachers and miners, and students marched into downtown Niamey to protest the killing of three students by police last week. President Ali Saibou's military Cabinet, continuing an emergency meeting begun over the weekend, praised ``the valor of the forces of law and order'' who opened fire Friday to disperse a rally of about 3,000 high school and university students. The government says police killed three people and wounded 33. Students put the death toll at 12. A government statement said the Cabinet ordered all secondary schools and Niamey University closed. Police did not interfere with Monday's march. The students also denounced the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and government for an unpopular austerity program that was a causes of Friday's demonstration. Saibou's government said in its statement the Cabinet ordered an investigation ``to unmask agitators and trouble-makers.'' It claimed students were being manipulated by ``traitors to the national cause pursuing personal ambitions.'' Striking teachers said they also were protesting the arrests of two colleagues detained on suspicion of encouraging student unrest. Leading politicians invited to the Cabinet meeting said the government had agreed to meet with student representatives. No date was given. In the past, the government has accused students of being greedy in demands for larger grants, better-equipped libraries and laboratories and guarantees of government jobs. The government has put a freeze on public jobs. Government officials say the demands are excessive in one of the world's poorest nations. The unrest is the worst in Niger since Saibou won a new seven-year term Dec. 10.
AP901120-0122 	X	Overweight children have greater long-term success controlling their weight if their parents provide early support for exercising and eating right, researchers said. Ten years after participating in a weight-loss program as 6- to 12-year-olds, children whose parents got similar weight-control training were significantly less obese than those whose parents received less training, according to a study published in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association. ``We think the important finding is in the modeling,'' said psychologist Leonard H. Epstein, head of the University of Pittsburgh's Childhood Obesity Clinic and leader of the research team. ``If you have children who you don't want to eat potato chips, you can't sit in front of them eating Ho-Hos.'' Epstein's group also concluded that pre-adolescent weight loss had no effect on height development, contrary to the findings of several shorter-term studies. Two other childhood obesity experts called Epstein's results surprisin because previous research has shown that fat children will grow into fat adults and that weight lost in treatment programs is quickly regained. Those experts said further study was needed on whether treatment of obesity in childhood can produce effects that persist into young adulthood. In Epstein's project, an initial group of 75 obese children and their parents were randomly assigned to three groups. Study criteria required the children be more than 20 percent over ideal weight for their age, height and sex; both parents living at home, one of whom had to be obese; and one parent willing to attend treatment meetings with their child. All subjects were to attend eight weekly treatment meetings followed by six monthly meetings, then by 21-month, five-year and 10-year meetings. All were instructed to follow a regimen that included a 1,200-to-1,500-calorie-per-day diet and an aerobic exercise program. In the first group, both parents and children received reinforcement for losing weight and were trained to praise other family members for changing eating and exercise habits. In the second group, only the children received reinforcement for losing weight but were similarly trained to praise family members for weight-control behaviors. Parents and children in the third group received reinforcement only for attending the meetings. They received information about social reinforcement without specific training in how to use the method. All subjects lost weight initially. At the 10-year mark, the children in the first group were, on average, 7.5 percent less overweight than at the beginning of the study while those in the second and third groups were 4.5 percent and 14.3 percent fatter, respectively. Parents in all three groups were more obese after 10 years than at the start of the study. In a journal editorial, Dr. Albert J. Stunkard of the University of Pennsylvania medical school and Dr. Robert I. Berkowitz of the Philadelphia Child Guidance Clinic cautioned that the ``treatment did not prevent obesity, it limited it.'' They called Epstein's results surprising, perhaps because of his relatively small study sample: intact, middle-class families in which the parents were likely to be very supportive of their children's efforts. They said replication of Epstein's study ``is clearly needed'' before the findings can be embraced.
AP900727-0213 	X	Stock prices fell today, pressured by new evidence of sluggish business conditions. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 23.02 to 2,897.77 by 2 p.m. on Wall Street. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 2 to 1 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 472 up, 941 down and 518 unchanged. The Commerce Department reported that the gross national product grew at a 1.2 percent annual rate, after adjustment for inflation, in the second quarter of the year. The figure came in below most advance estimates. In addition, analysts noted that a significant amount of the increase stemmed from inventory expansion, a negative portent for production. Open-market interest rates declined in response to the news. For stock traders, however, the data seemed primarily to emphasize recent worries about the outlook for corporate profits. Many big-name stocks have run into selling of late on earnings reports that didn't live up to expectations. Walt Disney, for instance, dropped 4&lsqb; to 116~ after posting a 23.3 percent quarterly earnings gain that evidently disappointed some traders. Elsewhere, energy stocks were mostly higher on reports that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries had agreed on a new oil production ceiling and reference price of $21 a barrel for the rest of the year. Exxon rose { to 49&rsqb;; Atlantic Richfield { to 124|; Amoco | to 54, and Texaco { to 62\. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell 1.46 to 193.09. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was down .79 at 355.54. Volume on the Big Board came to 105.17 million shares with two hours to go.
AP881111-0194 	X	Members of the ruling Politburo flew to the restive Baltic republics Friday, and one warned residents against pushing too hard for economic and cultural autonomy from Moscow, local journalists reported. Dissatisfaction in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania has been fueled by political reforms proposed by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Baltic residents say the changes will void their constitutional right to secede and give Moscow control over their economy and other aspects of life. The Politburo, the Communist Party's supreme body, promised Thursday to hold a discussion on expanding the rights of the 15 constituent Soviet republics. But the dispatching of three of its members to the Baltic region indicated the Kremlin wants to draw the line now on what sort of political changes can be contemplated. The 1,500-member Supreme Soviet parliament is to meet in special session in Moscow on Nov. 29 to approve Gorbachev's blueprint for political change, which also increases the powers of the presidential post and creates a new national legislature. Viktor M. Chebrikov, the former KGB chief who now heads a party Central Committee commission on legal and judicial reform, opposed demands for local economic independence in comments to workers at a plastics factory in Tallinn, Estonia, according to Tarmu Tammerk, an Estonian journalist. ``He said very strong words against economic independence. He said the whole of the Soviet economy is so tightly linked that one cannot speak of independence for one of its parts,'' Tammerk, who works for the newspaper Homeland, said in a telephone interview. Chebrikov's remarks were broadcast on state-run Estonian radio in an attempt to give them the widest possible exposure. ``His words sounded like a grim warning to people here,'' Tammerk said. ``Economic Independence'' has been the watchword of a widespread movement in Estonia called the Popular Front, which seeks greater control by Estonians over the affairs of their Switzerland-sized republic. Estonians say the fruits of their labor are siphoned off by Moscow to subsidize poorer regions of the country, including the giant Russian federation, the largest Soviet republic. Two of Chebrikov's colleagues on the Politburo traveled to the other Baltic states, ideology chief Vadim M. Medvedev to Latvia and Nikolai N. Slyunkov, who is in charge of formulating the party's social and economic policy, to Lithuania. Their arrivals were reported by state-run media in the Baltic republics, journalists there said. Later, the evening television news program Vremya broadcast brief reports on the visits. Tass, the official news agency, said Medvedev outlined limits to political activity in meetings with workers at two factories in Riga, the Latvian capital. Tass said Latvians agreed with Medvedev on the need ``to subordinate group ambitions to the interests of society as a whole in the conditions of perestroika.'' However, during his visit to the Norma factory in Tallinn, Chebrikov heard Estonians object to elements of Gorbachev's political reform plan, Vremya said. The westward-looking Baltic republics, independent states until the Soviet Union absorbed them in 1940, have become a proving ground for bold economic reforms that are part of Gorbachev's drive for ``perestroika'' or restructuring. Granting a greater degree of autonomy to the small republics on the Soviet Union's western edge is fraught with political risks, since many residents resent Moscow's control and some openly say their ultimate desire is complete independence. The Estonian Popular Front and a similar organization in Latvia have condemned Gorbachev's political reform plan, which is embodied in proposed amendments to the 1977 Constitution. The Lithuanian Restructuring Movement is to meet Sunday in Vilnius, the republic's capital, to consider the issue. Members of the three popular fronts are now gathering signatures on petitions asking that the amendments be dropped and rewritten, Algimontas Vaishnoras of the Lithuanian group said in a telephone interview. The Estonian Supreme Soviet, or parliament, has scheduled a meeting on the political reform issue for Wednesday, and Lithuania's legislature will meet the next day. The 12-man Politburo, in a report on its Thursday night meeting, said authorities will consider changing the draft constitutional changes in response to more than 80,000 suggestions and comments from citizens and organizations. Friday night the Central Committee announced it would hold a special plenary meeting in mid-1989 to review policies dealing with the country's more than 100 ethnic groups. ``The task of perfecting relations among nationalities is acquiring special importance and urgency,'' a Central Committee statement said according to Tass.
AP900101-0035 	X	The 28 crew members of a 600-foot Greek freighter that sank in the Pacific Ocean should arrive Wednesday aboard a Coast Guard cutter, authorities said. The Vulca went down Sunday morning, 800 miles northeast of Hawaii after efforts to pump water from its two forward holds failed, the Coast Guard said. The ship was carrying scrap metal from Los Angeles to South Korea when it began taking water Thursday. The Philippine crew members and Greek officers fled unharmed to the cutter Sassafras on Saturday evening. The cause of the original flooding was not determined, and there was no estimate on the value of the ship and its cargo, officials said.
AP900919-0123 	X	Nine months after a Yugoslav freighter ran aground and destroyed a 500-foot swath of live coral off Key West, the state and the ship's owner and captain have reached a tentative $3.3 million settlement. Tuesday's agreement, which must still be approved by Gov. Bob Martinez and the Cabinet, came just one day before a lawsuit filed over the grounding would have gone to trial in Key West. ``We think it's a very, very good settlement,'' John Costigan, chief of environmental litigation in Attorney General Bob Butterworth's office. Allen Von Spiegelfeld, a Tampa attorney who represented the freighter Mavro Vetranic, owner Atlantska Plovidba and captain Zdravko Berana, said his clients agreed to the proposed settlement late Monday by telephone from Yugoslavia. The ?3.3 million will go to the state's coral reef restoration fund, which finances research and other activity to preserve and revitalize the reefs. The Florida barrier reef, a tract of about 6,000 coral reefs extending from Miami along the Keys to the Dry Tortugas archipelago west of Key West, is the third-longest barrier reef in the world. It's home to 52 coral species and 10 times as many fish. It can take 100 years for a coral to grow one yard. The grounding last Oct. 30 was the second of three such incidents in less than three weeks in the Florida Keys. The federal government filed a $9 million lawsuit alleging that the Mavro Vetranic was unseaworthy and its crew incompetent when it ran aground. But government attorneys later conceded that the reef was in state territory and stepped aside to let the state handle the suit, Costigan said.
AP900226-0216 	X	Lockheed Corp., the nation's eighth largest defense contractor, reached a tentative labor agreement with the union representing about 20,000 workers for the aerospace firm. The tentative contract reached early Sunday still must be ratified by rank and file members of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. A nationwide vote was scheduled for March 4. ``We feel it's the best contract that we can negotiate at this time, especially with government audits,'' union negotiator Bob Gregory said Sunday, referring to government monitoring of Lockheed's hourly compensation costs. Tom Goff, spokesman for the Calabasas-based Lockheed, confirmed that the two sides had reached a tentative agreement. A week earlier, union members rejected management's latest offer by a 98 percent margin. The union said Lockheed's earlier offer was inadequate and set up a two-tier wage structure. As part of the tentative agreement, both sides declined to disclose terms of the contract until the rank-and-file votes. The union workers have been operating under an extension of the previous three-year contract that expired last October. The present contract offer will be retroactive to October and runs through March 1, 1993, Gregory said. The union's Local District 727 represents 6,000 workers in Burbank and Palmdale. The contract also covers workers at Lockheed plants in Sunnyvale and Marietta, Ga. Contract talks had resumed Thursday in Florida and concluded early Sunday. Asked about changes in the contract offer's pension plan, Gregory said that it establishes an employee stock ownership plan for union members. Lockheed set up an employee stock-ownership plan for salaried employees last April. The plan, designed to strengthen the company against take-over attempts, gave salaried workers control of 17 percent of the company.
AP880213-0133 	X	Mozambique rebels said Saturday they attacked and occupied army barracks 15 miles from the South African border and killed an undisclosed number of soldiers. The Mozambique National Resistance said it attacked the barracks in Moamba on Tuesday and ``destroyed three battalions of the 2nd brigade'' of the Mozambique army. Moamba is about 30 miles northwest of the capital, Maputo. A rebel statement distributed in Lisbon said the survivors of the attack fled toward South Africa. The statement also denied any responsibility for reported massacres of civilians over the past 15 days. The rebels, also known as RENAMO, have been fighting since 1977 to topple Mozambique's Marxist government.
AP901102-0176 	X	Hyosuke Niwa, a former Japanese labor minister, died Friday of heart failure caused by excessive bleeding at age 72, nearly two weeks after he was stabbed by a mental patient at a military ceremony. Niwa, a 12-term member of the governing Liberal Democratic Party in Parliament, was labor minister from December 1988 to June 1989 in the Cabinet of former Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita. Niwa was attacked Oct. 21 while walking to a military ceremony at the Moriyama military base in Nagoya, 170 miles west of Tokyo. He was stabbed with a knife by a 47-year-old mental patient.
AP901029-0147 	X	A 17-year-old high school student held a classmate hostage at gunpoint Monday after taking over a classroom and then freeing his teacher and five other students, officials said. The student, Eli Dean, made no demands and fired no shots. Negotiators were communicating with him over the school's intercom system, said state police Sgt. Marvin Jenkins. ``The important thing is we don't want anybody injured and we don't think he does either,'' Jenkins said. The rest of the 643-student school was evacuated onto the school football field. Hostage negotiators were at the school, and two state police chaplains were flown in. Members of Dean's family also were present, including his father, Robin, a civilian employee of the state police. Jenkins said snipers were positioned around the school, but that officials were keepings their options open. ``We're not making a move ... We're not in any great rush to do things,'' he said. The student, a senior, had been suspended from school twice during the past two weeks. He returned to the school late Monday morning with a handgun, officials said. Dean let his teacher leave first, and then later let most of the students go. The youth's stepfather, Rocky Williams of Charlestown, said he believed Dean had taken his .44-calibre pistol to the school. State police said they did not know what type of weapon the boy had. Williams said his stepson was suspended about two weeks ago after he accidentally set off a fire alarm. He was suspended again last week for breaking a window, Williams said. ``He was falling behind in his school work and was upset,'' his stepfather said. Police refused to speculate on Dean's motives. ``Maybe the fact that he's 17 years old is as much reason as anything,'' Jenkins said.
AP880630-0277 	X	BLACK SINGLES 1.``Paradise'' Sade (Epic) 2.``I'm Real'' James Brown (Scotti Bros.) 3.``Roses are Red'' The Mac Band featuring the McCampbell Bros. (MCA) 4.``The Right Stuff'' Vanessa Williams (Wing) 5.``I'll Prove It to You'' Gregory Abbott (Columbia) 6.``Joy'' Teddy Pendergrass (Elektra) 7.``If It Isn't Love'' New Edition (MCA) 8.``Don't Be Cruel'' Bobby Brown (MCA) 9.``Keep Risin' to the Top'' Doug E. Fresh & The Get Fresh Crew (Reality) 10.``Sign Your Name'' Terence Tent D'Arby (Columbia) 11.``Shoot `Em Up Movies'' The Deele (Solar) 12.``I Can't Complain'' Melba Moore & Freddie Jackson (Capitol) 13.``Let Me Take You Down'' Stacy Lattisaw (Motown) 14.``Off On Your Own'' Al B. Sure! (Warner Bros.) 15.``Alphabet St.'' Prince (Paisley Park) 16.``Mamacita'' Troop (Atlantic) 17.``Knocked Out'' Paula Aboul (Virgin) 18.``Groove Me'' Guy (Uptown) 19.``Parents Just Don't Understand'' D.J. Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince (Jive) 20.``Symptoms of True Love'' Tracie Spencer (Capitol)
AP881104-0262 	X	In some ways, imprisoned Vietnam vets do differ from other inmates _ they tend to be more cooperative, more reclusive, less involved with gangs, said Wilson, the Cleveland State professor. While some are hardened convicts, he said, others have no criminal mentality but their post-war lives have unraveled. Wilson said there's a direct link between post traumatic stress and drunken driving, disorderly conduct, assault and weapons charges. Reibel, who was found guilty but mentally ill of child torture, said his anger simmered for years. Records show he had a history of assaulting his son before his arrest. ``I thought about (Vietnam) everyday for 10 years and was afraid to say anything,'' he said. Some also say the public's intense anti-war feelings made their return all the more traumatic. ``Everybody that came back from World War II was a war hero,'' Armstrong said. ``When I come home, (I thought) `Man, I'm a war hero.' (But) you're one of the four horsemen. You're death riding on a horse.'' Most Vietnam vets readjusted well, but Armstrong and others got into bar fights, drank heavily, drove recklessly. Some called it their death wish. Others say Vietnam destroyed their priorities. ``Things that were important before I left weren't important anymore _ friends, family, success,'' said George Fisher, who robbed a shoe store to support a drug habit he picked up in Vietnam. The notion of right and wrong blurred, too. ``When you grow up and they teach you ... don't hit a girl ... when you get over there ... what if this little 16-year-old kid happens to be a girl and firing that Mauser at you?'' asked inmate Ken Everhart, convicted of criminal sexual conduct against his wife, from whom he was separated. ``People look and say, you're ... sick, pathetic,'' said Everhart, who's been married five times. ``I say, you beat me down. You've got me down. I'm tired. I'm tired. I'm 41 ... years old. I've been fighting Vietnam for 21 years now. Vietnam destroyed my value system.''
AP880321-0214 	X	Authorities are investigating whether a former federal prosecutor manufactured threats against herself and a magistrate during the extradition case of two Sikhs accused of terrorism in India, the U.S. attorney said Monday. A search of former prosecutor Judy Russell's house revealed similar threatening messages in a travel bag, said U.S. Attorney Samuel A. Alito Jr. An FBI laboratory analysis concluded that typewritten characters on envelopes containing the threats matched those on the prosecutor's 1983 application to the U.S. attorney's office, Alito said. The typewriter matching the print also was found in her house, he said. Ms. Russell was in charge of handling the Sikhs' case as an assistant U.S. attorney until leaving the office last summer to enter private practice. She received a temporary appointment as a special assistant after that, so she could continue to handle the case. She had submitted sealed information to U.S. Magistrate Ronald J. Hedges during the weeklong hearing about the extradition in February. Alito revealed Monday that they consisted of three typewritten envelopes containing the messages and one handwritten envelope, all purportedly mailed to her Newark law office. One of the letters addressed to Ms. Russell said: ``Don't get dead. Don't go to court.'' Hedges also received a threatening letter, two weeks before the extradition hearing, Alito said. The revelations that Ms. Russell was under investigation came during a court session requested by Alito to ``correct and supplement'' the record regarding the threats. Robert J. Fettweis, Ms. Russell's attorney and former colleague in the U.S. attorney's office, said she was in a private hospital. He would not comment on any aspect of the case or the nature of her illness. Alito said Ms. Russell had not been charged. The Justice Department's Department of Public Integrity was handling the investigation, he said. The extradition hearings took place Feb. 1-5 under extraordinary security, including sharpshooters on rooftops, which federal officials said was prompted by ``intelligence'' received by investigators. Hedges ordered that the men, Ranjit Singh Gill, 25, and Sukhminder Singh, 26, could be extradited. That ruling was being appealed. Alito said the revelation about Ms. Russell's alleged involvement in the threats had no affect on the outcome of the extradition case, but said he would seek a new hearing ``only because we want to avoid any appearance of impropriety.'' The Indian government charges that Singh plotted the revenge assassination of a retired general who led the bloody 1984 assault against Sikh militants occupying the Sikhs' holiest shrine, the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Gill was charged in the killing of a Parliament member. Singh's attorney, Ronald Kuby, called the affair ``clearly the most astounding thing I've heard.'' He has accused the Indian government of being behind the ``threats'' to poison the atmosphere against the two Sikhs.
AP881106-0062 	X	Television watchers of the 19th annual New York City Marathon followed the step-by-step progress Sunday of the leaders, but many spectators on the course scanned the thousands of runners for a familar face. The winner in the field of 23,478 _ largest ever for a marathon _ was Steve Jones of Wales, who finished in 2 hours, 8 minutes and 20 seconds, only seven seconds off the course record. Grete Waitz of Norway won the women's division for a record ninth time in 2:28:07. Marybeth Torpe was hoping another runner would run fast _ her boyfriend Tony Giannelli. She and several others had staked out the corner table at a restaurant on First Avenue to get a good view of the runners as they romped off the Queensboro Bridge. Their hopes on seeing Giannelli depended on how fast the Yonkers native ran. ``We have to leave this table by 12:30. The manager's kicking us out,'' said one of Giannelli's friends, Pete Koogan. Torpe was eager for Giannelli to finish, too. ``I'm going to ask him to marry me today,'' she said, holding up the rose she planned to give him. Crowds cheered for the those in the lead packs and the also-rans on the warm, sunny autumn day. Lynne Avery, a sophomore at Morristown (N.J.) High School, waited on First Avenue near 60th Street hoping to catch a glimpse of her English teacher, Robert Paciorkowski. But she was not taking any chances on missing him. ``Mr. Paciorkowski told us if he saw a television camera, he'd wave to us,'' Avery said _ as she held a small portable television in her hand. All along the marathon route, volunteers handed drinks to runners, but Rick Fairlamb of Glen Rock, N.J., had prepared a special elixir of carrot juice. He handed them out to the 50 or so runners in the ``Natural Living'' running club who passed his table at 61st Street and First Avenue. ``Last night I went into Brooklyn and got 500 pounds of carrots from a food co-op. We juiced them starting at 5 this morning,'' he said. In Central Park, Richard Borrego stood on the railing with a bullhorn, waiting for his favorites in the race to pass. He didn't have any trouble finding them. ``I'm cheering for Grete and Steve Jones,'' Mr. Borrego said, referring to the winners. ``They're both so courteous, full of good sportsmanship. They always help other runners. They never knock other runners,'' Borrego said. ``And that's the way it should be.'' In Washington, D.C., more than 13,000 people from 23 countries and 49 states ran the Marine Corps Marathon, which offers no prize money and prides itself on being the ``people's race.'' Jim Hage, a lawyer from Lanham, Md., who had never won a major marathon, pulled away from two-time champion Brad Ingram in the last half mile to win in 2:21:58.
AP880815-0057 	X	A 9-year-old boy and his aunt drowned in the Lehigh River as family members watched in horror after the two were swept away while wading across a shallow area below a dam, authorities say. Emisilda Santana, 41, and her nephew Lizandro Santiago were pronounced dead of accidental drowning Sunday despite efforts by rescuers who pulled the victims from the water and administered emergency aid on the shore. The woman's husband, Jose Santiago, and the boy's mother, Maria Pacheco, both of Allentown, were comforted by friends at the scene. The victims were among a group of six who were walking through the rapids ``when the water came and took us,'' said Esperanca Santiago, 10, a cousin of Santiago and Mrs. Santana's niece. Esperanca's brother, sister and another cousin also were in the group, she said, but all survivors escaped injuries. One child was hanging piggy-back on Mrs. Santana as the group struggled to shore, Esperanca said. She said Lizandro could not swim and had to be pulled from a public swimming pool earlier this year. Robert Dougher, 41, of Bethlehem, a Conrail policeman, said he was nearby when children came running from the wooded bank crying for help. He ran down to the river and saw Mrs. Santiago floating face down near the shore. Dougher said he pulled her ashore and gave her mouth-to-mouth and cardiopulmonary resuscitation but ``I couldn't get any vitals.'' Other rescuers arrived and tried to resuscitate the woman while two police officers tied to ropes searched for the boy in the 5-to-6-foot deep water. Two fishermen in a boat downstream found the boy in about 6 to 8 feet of water. The victims were taken to two different hospitals, where they were pronounced dead.
AP880320-0089 	X	Sen. Bob Dole, kicking off a Wisconsin campaign swing Sunday, flipped two coins into a wishing well, thinking perhaps of a badly needed win in Wisconsin's April 5 primary. As he strolled around a sports exposition at the city's convention center, Dole was asked by reporters about a Milwaukee Journal poll suggesting Vice President George Bush led him by a margin of nearly 3-1 among Wisconsin voters considered likely to vote in the Republican primary. ``There are no secrets,'' he said. ``I've got a lot of hill to climb before April 5,'' he said later in an interview. ``I met a lot of friendly people out there. It's tough when you're losing. It's a lot more fun when you're winning,'' he said. ``But I still have a lot of supporters out there. And we want them to know Bob Dole is a fighter, that we're going to stay in this race.'' The Kansas senator said, however, that he would have to reassess his standing if he lost in Wisconsin. ``We shouldn't be into this game about are you going to run or are you going to drop out,'' he said. But he added that after Wisconsin, he would have to do some thinking about whether to stay in the race. ``We've been hearing the end is near, but people forget George Bush stayed in eight weeks after he began losing to Ronald Reagan,'' Dole said. ``Eight weeks was enough for him to lose. But I think eight weeks would be enough time for me to turn some things around.'' At the sports exposition, he was presented with a fishing rod and fisermen's vest, and viewed a tank that served as an artifical fishing pond containing trout. A demonstrator cast a few lines but came up empty. Dole was also visiting a Veterans Administration hospital on Sunday. On Monday, he was attending a farm day in northwestern Wisconsin, visiting a vocational school in Eau Claire and touring a brewery in La Crosse. Dole's state campaign chairman Michael Grebe said he expected the senator's visit to be ``the kickoff to a strong effort in Wisconsin.'' ``We expect to have a direct mail effort, radio and television advertising and continuing volunteer effort and volunteer phone banks,'' Grebe said. Dole was trounced by Bush on Super Tuesday, and lost again last week in Illinois. He has indicated he intends to remain in the race at least through the Wisconsin primary. The Milwaukee Journal poll of 732 Wisconsin residents showed 69 percent of those planning to vote Republican preferred Bush, 25 percent chose Dole and 6 percent chose Pat Robertson.
AP880527-0262 	X	An Ohio prison inmate who took two guards hostage at gunpoint and fled in a rented Cadillac with his wife and 9-year-old stepdaughter was captured Friday, crossing from Mexico into El Paso, Texas. Michael Day, 31, of Athens, who escaped Sunday from the Ross Correctional Institution in Chillicothe, was arrested without incident about 6:30 p.m. EDT as he crossed the Santa Fe-Juarez bridge, officials at the prison said. His wife, Sylvia Carraveo Day, had been arrested about 2 p.m. as she crossed the same bridge, and Mrs. Day's daughter was also in custody, the FBI's El Paso office said. Day and his wife were in the El Paso city jail Friday night and will be arraigned Tuesday before a U.S. magistrate, authorities said. The FBI, El Paso police and authorities from Ohio and Indiana took part in the arrest. Day, serving an 18- to 25-year sentence for burglary and othger felonies, escaped with a pistol officials said was sent to him in a television set. Karen Albert, 29, of Athens was arrested and charged Monday with sending the gun. Day took his two hostages in a prison jeep to a Holiday Inn here, where his wife and stepdaughter waited with a getaway car. He handcuffed one guard to the jeep and the other to a towel bar in a room registered to his wife. A blue Cadillac that Mrs. Day rented Sunday night at the Columbus Airport Sunday night was found Friday morning near the international bridge, Ross Correctional spokeswoman Sandy Price said. Authorities staked out the area near the car and waited for the Days to return, Ms. Price said. She said authorities believe Mrs. Day has relatives in Texas and possibly in Mexico. Ms. Price said the stepdaughter would be released to Mrs. Day's parents. Day was convicted of attempted abduction, burglary, receiving stolen property and carrying a concealed weapon after a felony conviction, Ms. Price said. He had been at the Ross prison since June 1987 and had served at the Chillicothe Correctional Institute and Ohio State Reformatory in Mansfield since April 1985, and married while he was in prison.
AP880616-0222 	X	BLACK SINGLES 1.``Joy'' Teddy Pendergrass (Elektra) 2.``One More Try'' George Michael (Columbia) 3.``Alphabet St.'' Prince (Paisley Park) 4.``Paradise'' Sade (Epic) 5.``I'm Real'' James Brown (Scotti Bros.) 6.``Little Walter'' Tony! Toni! Tone! (Wing) 7.``Keep Risin' to the Top'' Doug E. Fresh & The Get Fresh Crew (Reality) 8.``Dirty Diana'' Michael Jackson (Epic) 9.``I'll Prove It to You'' Gregory Abbott (Columbia) 10.``Parents Just Don't Understand'' D.J. Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince (Jive) 11.``Most of All'' Jody Watley (MCA) 12.``Just Got Paid'' Johnny Kemp (Columbia) 13.``Run's House'' Run-D.M.C. (Profile) 14.``Roses are Red'' The Mac Band featuring the McCampbell Bros. (MCA) 15.``Everything Your Heart Desires'' Daryl Hall & John Oates (Arista) 16.``The Right Stuff'' Vanessa Williams (Wing) 17.``Shoot `Em Up Movies'' The Deele (Solar) 18.``Should I Say Yes'' Nu Shooz (Atlantic) 19.``Let Me Take You Down'' Stacy Lattisaw (Motown) 20.``I Can't Complain'' Melba Moore & Freddie Jackson (Capitol)
AP880801-0158 	X	President Reagan heard arguments Monday for and against U.S. participation in a treaty aimed at freezing emissions of an important precursor of acid rain. The pollutant in question, oxides of nitrogen, accounts for about one-third of the acidity in rainfall in the eastern United States and Canada. The Cabinet's Domestic Policy Council, with Reagan presiding, was briefed on a proposal coming from a United Nations-sponsored negotiation that would freeze emissions until 1996, pending further research on the effects of nitrogen oxides and how to reduce them. Reagan made no decision, but participants expect one soon. Oxides of nitrogen are formed in the combustion of fossil fuels in industry, utilities and motor vehicles. In the air they may be transformed into nitric acid. In urban areas they are an essential raw material for making smog. U.S. emissions have been roughly steady since 1980 and according to EPA projections should remain that way until about 1995, when slow increases should start. The 21.3 million tons emitted in 1986, the most recent year available, were 8.5 percent below the peak year of 1978. According to two participants in discussions over the issue, both of whom spoke on condition of anonymity, the Environmental Protection Agency supports joining the treaty while the Energy Department, supported by the Interior and Commerce departments and the Office of Management and Budget, opposes it. EPA spokesmen declined to discuss their agency's participation in the meeting. The telephone of an Energy Department official to whom questions were referred did not answer. The United States in 1985 declined to join a similar international agreement calling for a 30 percent reduction in emissions of the other major precursor of acid rain, sulfur dioxide.
AP901009-0217 	X	Diplomats from Eastern Europe used to have a hard time getting inside the heavily guarded NATO complex. Now they are given up-to-the-minute briefings on the Persian Gulf crisis. ``A year ago, just walking around NATO headquarters . . . would have been either illegal or certainly incredible,'' said Tibor Kiss, the Hungarian charge d'affaires in Brussels. He is among diplomats from Eastern European countries that accepted an invitation from North Atlantic Treaty Organization leaders to a ``regular diplomatic liaison'' with the Western alliance. At their July summit in London, President Bush and the other NATO leaders said the West wanted to share ``our thinking and deliberations in this historic period of change.'' They made the offer to the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria and Romania, all members of the Warsaw Pact, the crumbling Eastern military alliance. The seventh Warsaw Pact member was East Germany, now part of united Germany, which belongs to NATO. The Soviet Union and Hungary were the first to accept, telling NATO their ambassadors to Belgium would represent them, and the others followed. Diplomats from the six countries have had about half a dozen briefings at NATO, mostly on the gulf crisis. A senior NATO official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the briefings illustrated ``the new post-Cold War era that we're in. . . . We are no longer adversaries.'' Henning Wegener, assistant secretary-general of NATO for political affairs, gave the diplomats information on two meetings in August and September of foreign ministers of the Western alliance's 16 member nations. Separate sessions have been held with American officials, including the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq, April Glaspie, and Condolezza Rice, a Soviet specialist at the National Security Council in Washington. No NATO secrets were divulged, said those attending the discussions. ``I would not say these briefings are more informative than the press conferences,'' one diplomat said, on condition of anonymity. Others described them as helpful, especially the ones given soon after Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2. Kiss said Hungary ``certainly took into account whatever was said by the West'' in determi ning its position on the invasion. NATO is wrestling with the question of how far it should go in contacts with the ambassadors, known in NATO-speak as interlocutors. William H. Taft IV, U.S. representative to the alliance, would like to see the links expanded. ``I would hope . . . that we would at the least go well beyond the idea of simply keeping these new friends advised of major developments when they occur,'' he said in a recent speech. ``The point of liaison is surely something more - indeed, to keep in touch before major steps are taken and to benefit from consultation . . . before decisions are taken.'' Some European countries, notably France, are more cautious. One NATO diplomat, who would not let his name be used, said the invitation was a symbolic gesture ``intended to end the kind of distrust the six countries had concerning NATO. It was important to tell them our door was open.'' Making the contacts more formal, by opening a new NATO office for the purpose or granting the diplomats observer status at meetings, would change ``the real objective of this measure,'' he said. ``We have to have first a real debate in the organization about what we want to do,'' the NATO diplomat said in an interview. Andrei Keline, first secretary at the Soviet Embassy, doubts he ever will observe high-level NATO meetings. ``This is an alliance,'' he said. ``We are not part of it.'' Still, Keline said Moscow feels the links offer potential for military, scientific and economic cooperation. ``NATO is an important organization,'' he said. ``What we want (is contacts that are) business-like. They should be deep, and they should give as much as possible for both sides.'' Hungary, which plans to leave the Warsaw Pact's military arm next year, wants to deal with NATO on its own, not in a group with the other pact members. Could the initial contacts eventually lead to one or more of the Warsaw Pact countries applying for membership in the Western alliance? ``NATO isn't seized with that question because nobody has asked,'' the senior NATO official said. Keline commented: ``I wouldn't bury the (Warsaw Pact) right now.''
AP900621-0195 	X	The House on Thursday rejected a constitutional amendment to protect the American flag from desecration, heeding opponents who said it would risk damage to the Bill of Rights. The 254-177 tally left the amendment, which was supported by President Bush, 34 votes short of the two-thirds majority required to amend the Constitution. Republicans voted 159-17 for it, Democrats 160-95 against. The vote followed a sometimes impassioned day of debate featuring more than 100 speeches, including a rare address by the speaker of the House, Rep. Thomas S. Foley, D-Wash. ``We should not amend the Constitution of the United States to reach the sparse and scattered and despicable conduct of a few who would dishonor the flag and defile it,'' said Foley, who also cast a rare speaker's vote to register his opposition to the amendment. By tradition, the speaker does not normally engage in debate or vote. Countered Rep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill.: ``Let us take the flag out of the gutter where the counterculture has dragged it and is smearing it. We have 10 amendments that guarantee us all sorts of rights. How about one amendment that gives us a duty?'' Foley told reporters that Thursday's vote would be the last one on the amendment this year in the House, but Republicans promised to keep the issue alive. ``I am confident this debate is going to go on for a long time,'' Rep. Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., told the chamber. Asked about the Bush's efforts on behalf of the amendment, Gingrich said ``it was very hard for the president in two days to override the speaker.'' Supporters of the amendment, backed by veterans' groups seeking more time to lobby, had tried to delay Thursday's vote until next week but were defeated 231-192. Rep. Rep. G.V. Montgomery, D-Miss., the chairman of the House Veterans Committee and the amendment's prime Democratic sponsor, said of the proposal, ``I think we owe it to the brave Americans who have died for this country.'' But Rep. David Obey, D-Wis., decried the attempt to modify the First Amendment. ``When I look around the politicians today, I see more people who remind me of Daffy Duck than Thomas Jefferson,'' he said. The strength of the opposition was larger than expected and was aided by the unexpected support of some conservatives. ``Up until 24 hours ago, I was a sponsor of this amendment,'' said Rep. Tim Valentine, D-N.C. ``But over the rhetoric of the past few days, I finally heard the voice of my own conscience.'' The amendment read, ``The Congress and the states shall have power to prohibit physical desecration of the flag of the United States.'' It was first proposed in 1989 after the Supreme Court ruled that flag burning was a form of protected free speech. The issue was revived last week when the court rejected last year's attempt to pass an anti-flag-burning law that the court could accept. After the vote on the amendment, the House also rejected a new statute _ not a constitutional amendment _ to ban flag burning. The bill, narrowly drawn in hopes of avoiding court rejection, would impose fines and jail terms for people who burn flags to promote violence or who burn flags on federal property or belonging to the federal government. Republicans voted overwhelmingly against it after their leadership called it a ``fig leaf'' to protect Democrats who opposed the constitutional amendment, and it lost 236-179. The Senate is expected to vote next week on the amendment, which would require a two-thirds vote in both chambers, and approval by 38 of the 50 states, for ratification. Foley said the House would not vote again this year. Regardless of the outcome on Capitol Hill, Republicans promise to raise the issue in this fall's campaign. The House majority leader, Rep. Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., acknowledged the political tightrope members were walking. Several members decorated their speeches with flags and other props. Rep. Gary Ackerman, trying to highlight the difficulty of enforcing legislation to protect the flag, held aloft a wide variety of household items and gags decorated with the stars and stripes. ``How about American flag napkins,'' he said, holding one. ``What if you blow your nose in one. Have you broken the law?'' Although Ackerman said he was not trying to trivialize the debate, Rep. James Inhofe, R-Okla., said he was offended. Most Republican speakers supported the amendment; the bulk of opposition came from Democrats. There also was a noticeable generational tilt in the debate. House Minority Leader Bob Michel, R-Ill., a decorated World War II veteran, co-sponsored the amendment and called it ``a measured, prudent, limited thoughtful approach to the problem.'' ``Surely this is something different from the `assault on the Bill of Rights' some critics say it is,'' he said. Rep. James H. Quillen, R-Tenn., another World War II vet, used photographs of the famed Iwo Jima flag raising and of a flag-burning protest in New York's Central Park to dramatize his support for the amendment. But Rep. David Bonior, D-Mich., a Vietnam veteran who said he would ``never forget the sacrifices that have been made so that our flag can fly proudly and freely,'' was a leader of the opposition. ``In 200 years of our history, these basic freedoms have never been amended, never. And if we start now, who knows what freedoms will be next? ... Where will it end?'' he asked.
AP900607-0048 	X	Explorers bored a 250-foot shaft through the Greenland icecap to a B-17 bomber buried since World War II, said a sponsor who was awaiting word today of their findings. ``They're going to try to enlarge the hole to get into a hatch,'' Pat Epps, president of the Greenland Expedition Society, said Wednesday. One plan was to use hot water from the thermal borer that cut through the Arctic ice to enlarge the bottom of the shaft. If that doesn't work, ``somebody has to go down there with electric chain saws and carve around the airplane,'' Epps said. Epps, who had been on the icecap with the expedition until last week, heard by radio from Greenland on Wednesday morning that the expedition succeeded in reaching the plane. The bomber is one of two B-17s and six twin-engine, P-38 Lightning fighters that crash-landed when they ran out of fuel after being decoyed by false radio transmissions from German submarines while en route to Europe in 1942. Epps and Atlanta architect Richard Taylor formed an expedition to find and salvage the planes. This year, the third consecutive year the men flew to the icecap, a team led by Taylor used a thermal borer to drill the 42-inch diameter shaft to the B-17 named Big Stoop. A second team, led by Angelo Pizzagalli of Burlington, Vt., used a huge auger to bore a hole 16 feet in diameter toward a P-38. Epps, who hopes to fly one of the P-38s off the icecap, said plans call for getting all six fighters out by Sept. 1. The eight planes crash-landed July 15, 1942. Their crews camped in one of the B-17s for nine days until rescuers arrived on dog sleds. In the early 1970s, Col. Carl Rudder, one of the P-38 pilots, mentioned the planes to Roy Degan, a commercial airline pilot who brought the idea of an Arctic expedition to Epps. The explorers eventually obtained search and salvage rights from Denmark, which administers Greenland. In 1988, the society found the aircraft using low-frequency subsurface radar. Last year, expedition members drilled down to the B-17 and brought back poker chip-size pieces of its skin. Epps estimated his group will have spent $800,000 to $1 million by Sept. 1, financed by fund raising and Rolls Ltd., Pizzagalli's non-profit corporation in Vermont.
AP880726-0200 	X	Automobile innovator Malcolm Bricklin is seeking to evict a business associate from his northwestern Colorado ranch in a lawsuit that has brought bitter allegations from both sides. A jury trial in the Combined Courts of Rio Blanco County is scheduled to begin Wednesday in the civil suit brought by Bricklin Industries Inc. against John Avery. Bricklin, 49, wants to remove Avery, his wife and three children from a refurbished home on a ranch Bricklin owns nine miles south of here and about 225 miles west of Denver. Earlier this year, several small businesses filed liens of more than $100,000 against Bricklin-owned property in Colorado. Bricklin paid off his debts by early May, however, after he received the proceeds from the sale of his stake in Global Motors Inc. Global was the parent of Yugo America Inc., which introduced the cut-priced Yugo automobile to the United States in 1985. But Bricklin is best known for his failed attempt in the 1970s to popularize a plastic, gull-wing sports car bearing his name. In the latest dispute, he contends that Avery, 38, is not doing the job he was hired for. The millionaire had paid Avery $8,000 a month to act as ranch manager and also paid him as a real estate consultant. His suit follows a lawsuit filed by Avery earlier this year in federal court. Avery's suit contends that Bricklin has not lived up to terms of a verbal agreement under which Avery was allowed to buy 500 acres of Bricklin's 8,000-acre Franklin Ranch and invest $40,000 in a ranch house on the property. Bricklin says the agreements covered only rental of the property. Joseph Coleman, Avery's lawyer, said Bricklin cut off payments to his client and sought to get out of the verbal agreement in August 1987. ``When John filed a lawsuit, Bricklin responded by trying to take his home away,'' he said Tuesday. In an interview in the Rocky Mountain News on Tuesday, Bricklin said: ``People can't do the job, then they turn around and ask you for more money. It's something that wouldn't be happening if it wasn't me, because I've got some money. And if it wasn't me, it wouldn't be news.'' However, Coleman said bank accounts for the initial land purchase bear both men's names, indicating a partnership existed and supporting the verbal agreement.
AP880412-0224 	X	Little Rock Police Chief Jess F. ``Doc'' Hale, suspended following his arrest on theft charges, died of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound Tuesday, authorities said. Lt. Bert Jenkins said Hale's wife, Jean, found Hale, 47, shot in the head in the laundry room of his home. Hale, of Cabot, was suspended as chief pending the outcome of his trial on a charge of theft of less than $200 from a cash register in a Little Rock drug store. He was arrested March 10 outside the store. Hale's trial was to begin May 24 in Pulaski County Circuit Court. He pleaded innocent to the charge March 11 and was released on his own recognizance. In a statement, Little Rock City Manager Tom Dalton said the gunshot wound ``appears to be self-inflicted.'' ``Our entire city is shocked and stunned as we share this tragedy and sorrow,'' Dalton said. ``We extend our deepest sympathy to Doc's family.'' Hale was charged after state police made secret videotapes in the store, which is a favorite hangout for local politicians and police. Chief Deputy Larry Jones of the Lonoke County sheriff's office said notes on several sheets from a yellow legal pad were found in Hale's residence, but he did not know the contents. However, Sheriff J.O. Isaac said Tuesday night that Hale didn't leave any note that would explain his death. ``There was not a note found in the vicinity of where the body was. Any businessman or law officer keeps notes and that's what these were,'' Isaac said of the sheets from the legal pad. Isaac said he expected results of an autopsy conducted late Tuesday would be released Wednesday by the state Crime Laboratory. The sheriff said he would not know until then whether Hale's death was a suicide. He said tests were also being conducted on a pistol _ not Hale's service revolver _ that was found near the body. Radio station KARN, quoting sources who insisted on anonymity, reported late Tuesday that a settlement of the Hale case was being negotiated. Under the settlement, KARN said, the charges against Hale would have been dropped if the chief resigned. Pulaski County Prosecuting Attorney Chris Piazza declined comment on the report, and attorneys for Hale and the store owner could not be reached at their homes or offices Tuesday night. Hale was hired as chief Oct. 20, 1986, after running the Medicaid Fraud Division of the state attorney general's office. He had joined the attorney general after a long career with the Little Rock Police Department.
AP900215-0218 	X	Wilfred LePage saw his first zebra mussel Feb. 1. By September, thousands of the tiny molluscs jammed the intake of the water treatment plant he manages, cutting the flow 20 percent and nearly sparking a water emergency. ``There is no cheap solution to it and there's no real cure to the problem,'' said LePage, water treatment superintendent in Monroe, Mich., on Lake Erie's western edge. At the eastern end of the lake, in Dunkirk, N.Y., the green-and-yellow striped shellfish first appeared Oct. 3, and now infest a Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. generating plant. December's deep freeze stopped them from clogging water intakes but they quickly settled inside the plant. ``They like it where it's dimly lit, they like it where it's warm, and they don't like a lot of turbulence. This place is ideal for them,'' said Robert C. Henderson, a chemical lab supervisor at the plant. ``By July, we're going to have a massive problem with them.'' Three years after they were introduced to North America and after only one year in Lake Erie, zebra mussels have spread throughout the lake and have been spotted at the entrance to Lake Ontario and along the St. Lawrence River. It's an invasion scientists say could affect farming, fishing and daily life along virtually every body of fresh water in North America in the next few years. The mussels are mostly about a half-inch long, although they can reach 2 inches during their five-year lifespans. They eat by filtering microscopic food particles from the water, and love intake pipes of water and power plants because the current brings them a steady supply of fresh food. A mussel can filter more than a gallon of water an hour, said R. Warren Flint, a scientist with the Great Lakes Program at the State University of New York-Buffalo. As a result, they will leave water cleaner than before. ``From an aesthetic perspective, that would certainly be a benefit, I guess,'' he said. Europeans have used zebra mussels to clean algae-choked ponds, and the shells can be used to add calcium to livestock feed, said Charles O'Neill, with the Sea Grant program at the State University College at Brockport. The mussels also are a good source of food for diving ducks and some kinds of fish, including sturgeons and eels, Flint said. But with millions of them at work filtering microscopic food, they could deplete the supply for the small fish that support the billion-dollar walleye- and bass-fishing industry. And the bad news could spread beyond the lake and its shoreline. Farmers and golf courses that draw irrigation water from the lakes can expect problems, and beachgoers will have to wear shoes because of the shells, O'Neill said. ``It can affect everything from the electricity at your outlet to the water at your tap,'' O'Neill said. ``It's not just an environmental problem.'' Like their distant cousins, the blue mussels, zebras ought, in theory, to be edible by humans, Flint said. But when Canadian researchers tried steaming a bunch, O'Neill said, ``What they got was a stench that cleared the lab.'' The mussels have plagued Europe for more than a century and are believed to have arrived in North America on a freighter that emptied its ballast tanks in Lake St. Clair, upstream from Lake Erie, in 1986. Scientists are studying the possibility that the Lake Erie infestations came from several ships rather than that single 1986 event, O'Neill said. But Flint said one colony could have infested the lake because one mussel can lay 30,000 to 50,000 eggs a year and the larvae can swim for up to two weeks before growing shells. ``They could easily get across Lake Erie or Lake Ontario in that period of time,'' he said. For public water systems, controlling the mussels is a matter of applying chlorine, ozone or other disinfectants at the mouth of the intake pipe rather than waiting until the water is inside the plant, say scientists and plant operators like LePage who have already faced the problem. Power plants have a different problem, because officials are reluctant to let them put chlorine or other disinfectants in cooling water discharged back to the lake, Henderson said. Niagara Mohawk and the state Department of Environmental Conservation are negotiating a solution. James Sell, chief operator of the Dunkirk water plant, is studying ways of getting chlorine to the pipe's mouth, like building a platform over the intake or running a smaller chlorine pipe out through the intake. ``We're better off than the people in the western end of the lake,'' Sell said. ``At least we have some time to do something by spring.'' The City Council hasn't been persuaded to pay up to $100,000 for the plans, but Sell, who keeps three living mussels in a jar to show visitors, said, ``I don't see much option for them if they want a water supply.'' Farther inland, many water officials are unaware of the problem or not prepared to do anything about it. Michael Burke, director of the state Health Department's bureau of public water supply protection, said the department was studying the problem but doesn't see the need to issue warnings. ``I think the word's getting to them, particularly those with large surface intakes in the Great Lakes. It is coming out in industry papers and things of that sort.'' O'Neill and other scientists said the state should do more to get the word out, because it is only a matter of time _ and not necessarily very much time. ``The chances of them getting into the western reach of the Erie Canal is good,'' O'Neill said. ``The canal is an ideal place for them to live. It's warm. It's shallow. Most of it has rock riprap to attach to.'' Pleasure boats can also carry mussels and their larvae in their engine housings and other places where water collects. Once the mussels get into Lake Michigan, they will almost certainly spread through the Chicago River and into the Mississippi River basin, O'Neill said. ``Any area in North America that is utilizing surface water should be concerned.''
AP901126-0085 	X	Arizona Sen. Dennis DeConcini wrote an aide in 1986 asking what ``we can do to bring heat'' on a federal banking regulator who was opposed by savings and loan owner Charles H. Keating Jr., the Senate Ethics Committee was told today. The senator's memo to his staff aide, Laurie A. Sedlmayr, was written in December 1986, after Keating had made clear his opposition to top bank regulator Edwin Gray, who wanted Keating's thrift to adhere to investment limits. Committee special counsel Robert S. Bennett cited the memo in questioning Sedlmayr as the panel held its fifth day of hearings into allegations DeConcini and four other senators improperly intervened with regulators on behalf of Keating, a financial contributor. Sedlmayr said she was aware Keating wanted Gray out of office. DeConcini wrote her a memo on Dec. 11, 1986, citing press accounts of potential financial and ethical problems facing Gray and asking, ``Anything we can do to bring heat?'' She said she responded five days later saying it was ``probably unnecessary'' for him to take action and suggesting the senator ``stay out of this.'' Sedlmayr, under questioning by Bennett, said Keating was more aggressive than many other businessmen she dealt with. ``I found him to be something of a zealot and I wasn't comfortable with that,'' she said. ``I think the senator probably thought I was overstating the case,'' she said. Keating, who owned the now defunct Lincoln Savings and Loan, and his associates contributed $1.3 million to the senators' campaigns or favored causes. As the panel began its fifth day of hearings in three weeks, DeConcini, D-Ariz., was the only one of the five senators under investigation who attended the session. The other four are Republican John McCain of Arizona and Democrats Alan Cranston of California, Donald Riegle of Michigan and John Glenn of Ohio. Sedlmayr was questioned about a memo she wrote to DeConcini in 1987 suggesting a possible deal with the government on behalf of Keating's savings and loan. DeConcini denies he offered a deal or tried to negotiate for Keating in the April 2, 1987, meeting. Sedlmayr testified that DeConcini went to the April 2 meeting with three other senators and Gray despite being warned by an aide that the session was a ``political mistake.'' She testified that she was not concerned about the propriety of the meeting, but was concerned Gray ``would misrepresent it'' later. ``I told him I didn't think it was a good idea and could later be misinterpreted by the press,'' she said. ``I thought ... it was a political mistake.'' Sedlmayr and other aides were not included in the meeting, but she said that when it ended, DeConcini ``said he was pretty disgusted.'' She said DeConcini recounted that Gray had said, ``I don't know anything about Lincoln, I don't have any information and you'll have to meet with the regulators in San Francisco.'' Riegle, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, did not attend that meeting. However, he did attend a session on Lincoln a week later with the other senators and San Francisco-based federal regulators. The question of whether DeConcini offered a deal on Keating's behalf is considered crucial to the ethics investigation. Bennett, told the panel ``there is overwhelming evidence'' DeConcini asked Gray to withdraw a regulation opposed by Keating in exchange for a promise by Lincoln to make more home loans. The regulation limited Lincoln's ability to make risky investments in speculative real estate ventures. Sedlmayr's memo to her boss detailed ``What American Continental wants from Gray for concessions,'' and ``What American Continental is willing to do.'' American Continental was Lincoln's Phoenix-based parent company, controlled by Keating. A sworn statement by another Senate aide says that DeConcini took the Sedlmayr memo with him to the April 2 meeting and ``made verbal references to the subjects discussed in the memorandum.'' That statement was by Mary Jane Veno, administrative assistant to Glenn. She said she was told of the memo's use by Gene Karp, DeConcini's administrative assistant. When the meeting was over, she said, McCain asked DeConcini to explain what he had been talking about and in response DeConcini gave McCain a copy of the memo. But Karp said Friday he did not know if DeConcini actually referred to the memo and could not recall what he told Veno. ``As I remember it now, Gray said at the very beginning he didn't know anything about Lincoln and DeConcini never got into the subject matter of the investigation or anything about that,'' Karp said in an interview with The Associated Press. ``Whether there was any specific reference made, I can't answer. Only the principals that were there can answer it.'' Gray has said DeConcini offered a ``quid pro quo'' proposal and that Gray believed the meeting was improper. No aides attended the April 2 meeting, and Bennett said there is evidence DeConcini's office instructed all to come alone. Lincoln was the object of a bank board examination at the time of the meeting. Bennett said the senators were there ``with varying degrees of intensity, to pressure the board to end promptly the Lincoln examination.'' Lincoln was seized by the federal government in April 1989 at a potential bailout cost to taxpayers of more than $2 billion to cover insured deposits.
AP881114-0230 	X	Share prices closed lower Monday after a day of choppy trading on the London Stock Exchange. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index fell 8.4 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,794.3. Trading volume was moderate at 479.3 million shares, compared with the 708.7 million shares traded Friday. The market sank at the onset of trading, reflecting concerns about how the administration of President-elect George Bush would handle U.S. economic problems. But it rose sharply by midday on bargain-hunting by big investors, only to sink on the release of disappointing British economic statistics. The Financial Times 30-share index fell 8.7 points to 1,452.5. The Financial Times 500-share index fell 6.68 points to close at 1,021.95.
AP880617-0051 	X	A British judge sentenced an Arab man to 11 years in prison for keeping a cache of explosives for the Palestine Liberation Organization in his home. Judge Christopher French of Old Bailey's Central Criminal Court told Ismael Sowan on Thursday that the sentence was the very least he could give for his ``extremely grave offences.'' Sowan, 28, was convicted Wednesday of storing explosives, rifles and grenades in his home in the eastern port of Hull. In announcing the sentence Thursday, the judge said, ``we were reminded ... only yesterday of the appalling use to which these materials can be put.'' The reference was to a bombing in Northern Ireland that killed six soldiers and wounded 10 civilians Wednesday. Sowan was arrested last August when police were investigating the shooting death of an Arab cartoonist, Ali Naji Awad Al-Adhami. Although he was arrested in Hull, Sowan's trial was held in London at the Old Bailey court because cases involving security and terrorism usually are tried there and because Scotland Yard had participated in the investigation. Sowan testified that the weapons found in locked suitcases in his bathroom belonged to Abder Mustapha, a known PLO guerrilla suspected of organizing Al-Adhami's murder. Police said that Mustapha fled to the Middle East after Al-Adhami was shot in the head. Sowan, a university research assistant, is not a suspect in that crime, although he was a friend and associate of Mustapha. After his arrest, Sowan claimed to be funneling information about Mustapha to the Israeli secret service Mossad. Officials at the Israeli Embassy in London confirmed that Sowan was in contact with them, and that he had told them that he had Mustapha's weapons. British police and intelligence agencies said they did not know about the spying operation and did not receive information from Mossad about the weapons cache during the investigation. David Cocks, Sowan's defense attorney, said the Israeli factor made his client innocent.
AP880404-0247 	X	A top IBM executive has confirmed that the company has offered its state-of-the-art computer chips for sale to other companies, according to a report published today. IBM's vice chairman and highest-ranking engineer, Jack D. Kuehler, denied industry speculation that the company was acting to prevent its American competitors from becoming dependent on Japanese suppliers for chips, The New York Times reported. The chip is the core technology in advanced computers. Kuehler acknowledged that for more than two years the company has offered small supplies of advanced chips to fewer than a dozen American and European computer makers. The company did so ``to sharpen our own competitiveness'' by letting other computer makers choose between IBM's chips and those offered by Japanese companies, he said. ``Sometimes we found we were deficient and we have worked to correct that,'' he said. ``Sometimes we found we were truly leaders.'' But the Times reported that other industry officials suspected that International Business Machines had other motives in acting as a chip supplier to competitors, such as driving down its own production costs. ``IBM is in the unusual position of having to worry about the global competitiveness of American chip technology,'' said Richard Shaffer, editor of the Technologic Computer Letter, which follows the computer and semiconductor industries. IBM officials have said the company's own health depends on maintaining a strong domestic ability to produce chips, train a large number of microelectronic engineers and sustain a strong semiconductor equipment manufacturing business so IBM will not need to depend on Japan for the most up-to-date technology. Reports that IBM offered to sell chips to an archrival, Digital Equipment Corporation, surfaced about 10 days ago and industry sources then revealed the offers were more widespread. The company also has said it was selling only its chips, not its underlying designs or process technology.
AP900314-0013 	X	Sir Eric Gairy, the flamboyant former prime minister, failed Tuesday in his comeback attempt in Grenada's second election since the 1983 U.S.-led invasion, complete but unofficial returns indicated. However, all four political parties opposing Gairy also failed to gained a parliamentary majority, creating uncertainty over who will lead the tiny Caribbean island's next government. With final but unofficial results in from all 15 parliamentary constituencies, the National Democratic Congress of Nicholas Brathwaite led with seven seats in the House of Representatives, or parliament, one short of the necessary majority to form a government, Radio Grenada reported. Gairy's Grenada United Labor Party won four seats, but Gairy himself was defeated in his parliamentary district, the radio said, citing the Electoral Commission. Gairy had dominated the island's politics for three decades before he was ousted in a Marxist revolution 11 years ago. Radio Grenada said The National Party of acting Prime Minister Ben Jones and the New National Party led by Keith Mitchell won two seats each. Jones and Mitchell were both returned to parliament. The leftist Maurice Bishop Patriotic Movement failed to gain any parliamentary seats. Radio Grenada said the results were complete but unofficial. Official results were to be announced Wednesday. Although the outcome was inconclusive, Brathwaite, 65, a moderate who led a 13-month interim government after the 1983 invasion, was in a strong position to become the next prime minister. He said before the election that he would not be interested in forming a coalition government, but most observers thought it likely Brathwaite and Jones would merge their parties to form a government. There was no immediate comment from any of the candidates. Turnout was estimated at 60 percent of the 58,296 eligible voters, sharply below the 85 percent recorded in the 1984 election. The election happened to fall on the 11th anniversary of the Marxist coup that toppled Gairy's authoritarian government on March 13, 1979, and brought to power the People's Revolutionary Government of the late Prime Minister Maurice Bishop. A rift in Bishop's government led to his assassination, along with 10 other people, on Oct. 19, 1983. Six days later, U.S. Marines and paratroopers, along with a small regional force, invaded the island and ousted a Marxist junta that had seized power. The Reagan administration, already alarmed by Bishop's close ties with Cuba and the Soviet Union, said the invasion was necessary to protect hundreds of medical students and prevent the island from becoming a bastion of Communist aggression in the region. Gairy, 68, and apparently nearly blind with glaucoma, earlier said he would not contest the election unless a ``miracle'' improved his sight. Last month, however, he said ``a source greater than I'' ordained that he once again lead Grenada. He also said the election came on the anniversary of his ouster not by coincidence but because it had been ``arranged cosmically by a divine force.'' Gairy, who was Grenada's first prime minister after independence from Britain in 1974, was widely regarded as repressive and corrupt. As early as 1961, Britain dissolved Gairy's pre-independence government because of alleged financial irregularities. Gairy's party won 36 percent of the vote in the 1984 election but gained only one seat, which it later lost in a party defection. The merged New National Party won 14 seats, with 58.5 percent of the vote, but later split into three groups. The election followed the death of conservative Prime Minister Herbert Blaize in December.
AP900111-0059 	X	Earthquakes continued to rumble under Redoubt Volcano and oil producers shut down their platforms amid fears the tremors could send floodwaters cascading over an oil terminal on the Cook Inlet. Redoubt has been erupting since mid-December, sending corrosive ash as high as eight miles into the sky and melting glacier ice, producing muddy torrents of water that have overflowed the banks of the Drift River. The Drift River storage terminal, with 38 million gallons of oil stored in its tanks, sits on the banks of the inlet in the shadow of the volcano 115 miles southwest of Anchorage. The terminal has been closed since Tuesday, and officials planned to remove most of its oil. Redoubt's last eruption was Monday, but seismologists said the volcano remains active, and that more flooding was possible in future eruptions. ``The quake activity indicates the volcano is relatively quiet for now and it does not appear to be building toward stronger eruptive activity,'' geologist Steve Brantley of the Alaska Volcano Observatory said Wednesday. Still, a major eruption like Monday's is possible, he said. Ten of the 15 platforms that pull oil from the Cook Inlet send their crude to the Drift River terminal for storage. With the terminal closed, eight of the 10 platforms have been forced to shut down, said Bill Lamoreaux, a regional supervisor with the state Department of Environmental Conservation. ``The other two platforms are (operating at) very low volume,'' Lamoreaux said. There have been fears the flooding could breach storage tanks, causing a spill of the dimensions of the March 24 wreck of the tanker Exxon Valdez, which released 11 million gallons of North Slope crude into Prince William Sound. Harold Mouser, manager of Cook Inlet Pipe Line Co., which operates the terminal, said the tanker Sansinena was standing by to remove the terminal's oil as soon as the procedure is ready. ``We do not have our equipment operational yet for loading the tanker. People there are working on it and have been working through the night,'' Mouser said Wednesday. Cook Inlet Pipeline Co. and the state agreed Tuesday to shut down the terminal and remove about 80 percent of the oil. The terminal probably will not resume operations until the company and the state can agree how to operate it safely under the continuing threat of Redoubt, Lamoreaux said. ``They recognize they had a heck of an inventory of crude oil,'' he said. ``The facility sits right on the shoreline of Cook Inlet. The tank farm is on the back side, but there's nothing to stop it if the contents were lost.'' ``I'll be feeling a lot better when the total volume is reduced.'' The production halt could cost the state of Alaska some money, said Chuck Logsden, a petroleum economist with the Department of Revenue. The affected fields contributed much of the $23.3 million in royalties Alaska collected last year from Cook Inlet production, he said.
AP880719-0067 	X	A controversial hardliner in the guerrilla war against Nicaragua's leftist government has become the first military man to win a key role in the rebel leadership. Col. Enrique Bermudez, who survived an ouster attempt in April, joins a seven-member Contra directorate that oversees the U.S.-backed insurgency against the Sandinista government. The 56-year-old professional soldier, a former colonel in the Nicaraguan National Guard under ex-dictator Anastasio Somoza, was elected by a 44-2 vote Monday by an assembly of rebel delegates meeting here. Three of the 54 assembly members abstained and five were absent when the vote was taken on the second day of the assembly's three-day meeting in this Caribbean capital. Bermudez ran unopposed as an independent candidate for a one-year term on the directorate, which sets overall policy for the Nicaraguan resistance. He pledged to unify the exiled movement, which has been split by infighting and has struggled to stay financially afloat since Congress halted military aid in February. ``Today, more than ever, I offer my spirit and goodwill ... to strengthen our movement,'' Bermudez said. ``To our Marxist-Leninist enemy, we promise a hard battle.'' The Contras have been fighting a seven-year war to overthrow the government of Nicaragua's President Daniel Ortega. Bermudez insisted he would confine himself to military affairs. Although all seven directors have equal power under assembly rules, senior director Adolfo Calero had been widely regarded as the movement's de facto political head. Calero was re-elected with 36 votes to 16 for his conservative rival, Fernando Aguero Rocha, with two abstentions. There had been some speculation that he could lose his seat in a power struggle with Bermudez. Calero, 56, said he expected Bermudez to confine himself to military matters, and said he was satisfied with the election results. Bermudez' position was strengthened with the defeat Monday night of incumbent director Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, who lost his seat by a 31-20 vote with three abstentions, to Wilfredo Montalvan, 42. Chamorro and Calero tried but failed to strip Bermudez of his military command in April when Bermudez fired six regional Contra commanders for mutiny. Chamorro said talk of making Bermudez a defense minister for the directorate was a ``mask'' for the military chief's ambition to gain absolute control of the movement. ``I don't think he has total control yet, but that is clearly his intention,'' Chamorro said after the election. Bermudez' closest ally on the directorate, Aristides Sanchez, was re-elected, along with Alfredo Cesar, who has supported the military leader's candidacy. The other newly elected directors were Roberto Ferrey, replacing his sister, Azucena, who decided not to seek re-election; and Wycliffe Diego, who fills a vacant seat representing the Atlantic Coast Miskito Indians and Creoles.
AP900405-0124 	X	NASA finished testing the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope aboard Discovery and started final pre-countdown work Thursday, raising the space agency's hopes for a timely launch next week. It is the most comfortable NASA officials have felt about Tuesday's launch date since a power outage interrupted the testing Monday, said George Diller, a spokesman for the space agency. ``Basically, the work's done. We're just down to the things you can't do before now anyway,'' Diller said. ``We're essentially on or near schedule on all of that work. I'm really not aware of anything that's unusually shaky,'' he said. The countdown is scheduled to begin Saturday afternoon. Early forecasts show an 80 percent chance of weather favorable for launch Tuesday, with the weather worsening slightly during the next two days. Functional testing of the telescope and shuttle was completed early Thursday, and the launch pad was cleared of all non-essential personnel for final preparation of the payload and orbiter. Technicians were in the middle of the 52-hour test when a power outage at Kennedy Space Center knocked out air conditioning and forced the shutdown of heat-sensitive computers. Testing resumed Tuesday evening and had to be completed by Thursday morning for the mission to stay on schedule. As soon as the testing ended, technicians began the routine procedure of placing explosive devices on the shuttle's solid rocket boosters, external tank and the orbiter itself to be used in the event of a serious malfunction, said NASA spokesman Bruce Buckingham. Power was turned off to the telescope and shuttle so that the hazardous work could be performed. Charging of the telescope's nickel-hydrogen batteries also was halted and was to resume. The telescope's batteries will be charged until the shuttle's payload bay doors are closed two days before launch. The 24,250-pound, 43-foot-long telescope, named for the late American astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, is the most expensive unmanned spacecraft ever built by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It originally was scheduled for launch in 1983, but was delayed due to technical problems and the 1986 Challenger explosion. Discovery's five astronauts plan to deploy the telescope on the second day of the five-day mission. The Hubble will orbit 380 miles high for 15 years, enabling astronomers to study stars and galaxies so distant that their light has been traveling to Earth for 14 billion years. It will be capable of detecting objects 50 times fainter and with 10 times greater clarity than the best ground-based observatory.
AP900611-0189 	X	The stock market snapped out of last week's slump Monday with a rally led by blue chips. But trading set its slowest pace in more than two months. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials, down 38.59 points last week, rebounded 30.19 to 2,892.57. Advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 5 to 3 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 918 up, 563 down and 516 unchanged. Volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 119.55 million shares, down from 142.60 million in the previous session and the lightest total since a 114.97 million-share day on April 9. Analysts said traders were doing some selective ``bargain-hunting'' in the blue chips while they awaited a broad array of economic reports due from the government this week. Among the monthly statistics on the agenda for Wall Street are the producer price index of finished goods, due on Thursday, and the consumer price index and the nation's trade balance, both on Friday. If all goes as expected, brokers say, the data will support the popular view that economic growth is plodding along at a pace slow enough to permit inflation and interest rates to ease. However, they add, any surprises in the numbers could unsettle some of the optimism generated during the rally that carried stock prices to new highs as recently as last Monday. Nationwide, consolidated volume in NYSE-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 145.41 million shares. Boeing led the active list, up 3 at 58{ on turnover of more than 2.3 million shares. The stock, which was split 3-for-2 effective with Monday's trading, reponded to word of a $4.8 billion order from Korean Airlines for Boeing 747-400 jets. Energy stocks attracted buyers after dropping last week in line with falling oil prices. Exxon gained ~ to 47~; Chevron 1&lsqb; to 70|; Atlantic Richfield 2 to 116~; Amoco ~ to 51{, and Texaco &rsqb; to 57~. Elsewhere among the blue chips, International Business Machines rose 1&lsqb; to 119~; Coca-Cola { to 44{; General Motors | to 49&lsqb;; American Telephone & Telegraph \ to 42\, and DuPont { to 39|. Microcom Inc. tumbled 8{ to 9} as the most active issue in the over-the-counter market. Late Friday the company projected a loss for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, saying major domestic distributors were overstocked with its software and modem products. As measured by Wilshire Associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $22.14 billion, or 0.64 percent, in value. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained 1.37 to 197.42. Standard & Poor's industrial index rose 3.79 to 421.22, and S&P's 500-stock composite index was up 2.92 at 361.63. The NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter market added 1.92 to 462.79. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index closed at 362.32, up 1.15.
AP880406-0034 	X	Francis A. Keating II, selected for the No. 3 job at the Justice Department, is a former FBI agent who has spent much of his time in the Reagan administration going after big banks who launder money for drug smugglers and other criminals. Keating, assistant Treasury secretary for enforcement, pursued various cases against banks for neglecting, either intentionally or inadvertently, a 17-year-old law requiring that the institutions to inform the government in writing whenever they handle a cash transaction of $10,000 or more. The Treasury crackdown assessed multimillion-dollar penalties against some of the nation's biggest banks, including a record $4.75 million fine paid by the Bank of America. The crackdown on money laundering was started by Keating's predecessor in the job, John M. Walker Jr., who is now a federal judge in New York, but Keating continued the effort when he took over at the Treasury Department in December 1985. As head of enforcement, Keating, 44, oversees the Secret Service, the Customs Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Keating was one of the officials charged with implementing the administration's stepped-up efforts at halting the flow of illegal drugs into the country. Keating, who will replace Associate Attorney General Stephen Trott, was praised by Attorney General Edwin Meese III as someone who ``can hit the ground running'' in the Justice Department's work in combating illegal drugs. Trott is leaving Washington to become a federal appeals court judge in California. At Treasury, Keating also has headed the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the agency charged with implementing economic sanctions imposed against Cuba, Libya, Iran and South Africa. Before joining the administration, Keating was a partner in an Oklahoma law firm. He also served as a U.S. attorney from 1981 to 1983 for the Northern District of Oklahoma. From 1972 to 1981, Keating was a member of the Oklahoma legislature, starting out in the House of Representatives and then winning a seat in the state Senate, where he served as Republican leader. Keating is also a former state prosecutor and FBI agent. He graduated from Georgetown University in Washington in 1966 and received his law degree from the University of Oklahoma in 1969.
AP881028-0067 	X	A projected $55 million-plus lottery prize that would return the North American title for big jackpots to the state is making Californians' gambling fever rise again. Lottery officials and merchants said ticket sales for the Saturday drawing were running about double the usual pace for Thursday's sales. The official estimate of ``over $55 million'' for the drawing is conservative, based on similar situations in the two-year history of California's computerized Lotto 6-49 game, said lottery spokesman Bob Taylor. On June 4, California's lottery paid out a $51.4 million jackpot, North America's largest at the time. That jackpot was eclipsed Sept. 3 by a $55.1 million prize in Florida. The state-run lottery's policy is to estimate the jackpot conservatively, then revise the projection upward as sales soar. It all depends on how wildly Californians react to the 1-in-14-million chance of winning the jackpot. ``The jackpot is going to generate an awful lot of sales,'' said Taylor. The size of the jackpot depends on sales and jackpot rollovers, which combine to produce heavy gambling periods, dubbed ``lottomania'' when they first struck other state's games. When nobody picks all six winning numbers out of a choice 49, the jackpot is rolled over, or added, to the top prize for the next twice-weekly drawing. Four rollovers, including the rollover of a $33.4 million jackpot Wednesday night, produced the current record prize estimate. The exact size of the jackpot will depend on how many tickets are sold. Of every $1 ticket, 20 cents goes into the jackpot. Each time the jackpot climbs, so do sales, pushing the total still higher, generating even more sales. Historically, most of the sales occur in the last few hours before the televised drawing at four seconds before 7:57 p.m. Sales are cut off at 7:45 p.m. By 2 p.m. Thursday, sales hit $1.2 million, which is normally the total for the entire 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. sales period on a Thursday, said Taylor.
AP900213-0083 	X	The United States has completed withdrawal of its military force that invaded Panama on Dec. 20, the White House said today. The U.S. troop strength in Panama is at 13,504, below the 13,597 stationed in the Central American nation before the invasion, said presidential press secretary Marlin Fitzwater. More than 14,000 troops had been rushed from bases in the United States for the invasion. While the troop levels have fluctuated by a few thousand over recent years, the 13,000 level is considered in the normal range, he said. That includes, however, the 2,000 extra personnel President Bush sent to Panama following an election last May 7 that was invalidated by now-deposed Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. ``The efforts of all the U.S. military personnel in Panama were key to helping put Panama on the road to democracy,'' Fitzwater told reporters. ``The president commends the efforts of these brave men and women. Their task is something of which all men and women should be proud.'' The Panama invasion resulted in the combat deaths of 23 U.S. soldiers and the wounding of 324, with 314 Panamanian troops killed and 124 wounded, according to Pentagon figures. In addition, 202 civilians were killed in the fighting. The United States has no plans to withdraw its permanent force in Panama. However, the troops are shifting their emphasis from the traditional one of concentrating on the Panama Canal to help train a new national police force for Panama. Noriega's Panamanian Defense Force was effectively put out of business by the invasion and his ouster, but thousands of its members have signed up for the new police force. Fitzwater said the number of U.S. troops will likely continue to fluctuate in the years to come. Presence of the invasion force was a thorn in the side of Panama's Latin American neighbors who saw the invasion as an unwarranted use of U.S. muscle. President Alan Garcia of Peru initially said he would not attend this Thursday's drug summit in Colombia with President Bush as long as the invasion troops remained. Last week, however, as the U.S. troop withdrawal continued, he announced he would attend.
AP881031-0187 	X	The search for a teen-ager suspected of slaying a college student whose body was found in her bathtub spread through New England Monday as reported sightings flooded the police station of this wary town. ``We've even had people call in sightings that turned out to be farmers walking down dirt roads and of one little girl on a road,'' said Police Chief David McCarthy. Tensions had been running high for days in the town of 18,000, especially since published accounts quoting sources as saying the suspect had a fascination with a Halloween horror movie. A cinema agreed to suspend the showing of a new horror film, ``Halloween IV,'' and selectmen voted Friday to hold trick-or-treating in broad daylight Sunday, a day early. McCarthy said he has sent out 1,000 photographs of Mark Branch to other police forces in New England. Branch, 19, disappeared shortly after the stabbing death of Greenfield Community College student Sharon Gregory, 18. Her body was discovered in her tub on Oct. 21 by her sister. ``This subject should be considered armed and dangerous,'' said a state police bulletin, according to The Recorder of Greenfield. ``Info received ... indicates this subject may kill again.'' The bulletin said Gregory was stabbed in the back and head with a knife that McCarthy said has not been found. He said Gregory was not sexually assaulted. The chief described Branch as ``a loner. He was a different type of individual,'' adding: ``A lot of people didn't like the kid.'' He stressed, however, that investigators have found no link between Branch's alleged taste for horror films and the slaying. A state police investigator said sightings were reported as far away as Enfield, Conn., 50 miles to the south of the western Massachusetts town. Police have searched for Branch since his car was discovered abandoned on a back road in nearby Buckland a day after Gregory's body was found. Over the weekend, however, a manhunt in Buckland was called off because 30 searchers and trained dogs turned up nothing. ``I think it would be very reasonable to assume Branch has gone from the area,'' McCarthy said. ``Twenty-five hours elapsed between the time of the murder and the time we found his car.'' Newspapers have reported that Branch was a fan of the ``Friday the 13th'' movie series, in which a character named Jason committed a Halloween night massacre. And they cited unnamed sources as saying police found Jason costume paraphernalia in Branch's home, including a hockey goalie mask and black boots. Police have refused to comment on their search and the search warrant they used has been impounded. McCarthy said his detectives reviewed the ``Friday the 13th'' movies to try to find a connection with the slaying. Police have no evidence that Gregory's slayer may have acted as Jason, ``no paraphernalia left at the scene of the crime, no notes, nothing,'' McCarthy said. ``This was a brutal murder, but it had nothing to do with any ritual involving Satanism, Jason, Friday the 13th.'' McCarthy said he tripled the number of police cars on patrol for Halloween, but expected no trouble. ``I spent four days trying to clear up the fear frenzy that has run rampant in this town,'' he said. ``I think by now the town has come off this fear thing.''
AP881128-0041 	X	The dollar surged against the Japanese yen Monday, and stock prices were sharply lower due to concern over higher oil prices and the possibility of a U.S. interest rate increase. At the end of trading, the dollar was quoted at 122.00 yen, up 0.85 yen from Friday's close of 121.15 yen. It opened higher at 121.60 yen and moved between 121.58 yen and 122.00 yen throughout the day. On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, a 43.06-point loser during Saturday's half-day session, fell another 380.27 points or 1.3 percent to close at 28,983.32 points. A dealer at the Bank of Tokyo said the dollar ``was being bought in expectation that U.S. monetary authorities may (raise) prime lending rates and the nation's discount rate,'' the rate the Federal Reserve Board charges on loans to commercial banks. Meanwhile, Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told reporters that Japan's central bank was closely watching for a possible move by the Federal Reserve, Kyodo News Service said. The dollar's strength paralleled the firmness of the British pound despite an increase in British interest rates after news last week of London's wider-than-expected current account deficit, the dealer said. The firmer dollar, expectations of a move by the Federal Reserve and higher oil prices encouraged investors to take profits from the recent rally on the Tokyo stock market, pushing prices lower, analysts said. Volume during morning trading was a relatively heavy 750 million shares, with most activity in heavy industrials like Kawasaki Heavy Industries, said Nick Ganner of Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers International Ltd. Steels and heavy industrials were mixed, while the broader market was weaker. Fisheries were helped by press reports over the weekend that said the Soviet Union's state-owned fish processing company and Taiyo Fishery have reached an agreement to set up a joint venture on the Soviet island of Sakhalin to process catches from Japanese and Soviet vessels.
AP880815-0190 	X	U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said Monday he has no reason to believe he will be selected as Republican George Bush's running mate, and that it would be ``presumptuous'' to say whether he would accept such an offer. ``I'll be back on the job tomorrow in Washington,'' Thornburgh, the former two-term, Pennsylvania governor, told reporters at a rally sponsored by his state's GOP convention delegation. Thornburgh said he was in town only to hear President Reagan's address to the convention Monday night. Asked how he would respond to an offer from the all-but-certain nominee for the vice presidency, Thornburgh hesitated before replying: ``That's a presumptuous kind of a statement to make. I have no reason to think that's going to happen.'' Thornburgh was sworn in as the successor to former attorney general Edwin Meese III on Friday. Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., a member of the Judiciary Committee that heaped praise on Thornburgh during his confirmation hearing, said senators would understand if Thornburgh left after less than a week on the job. ``Obviously the Justice Department is very important. We pushed hard to move things quickly (with confirmation),'' Specter said. ``But my sense is people would feel this is important _ if the vice presidency gives him a higher calling, that's that,'' he said. Specter, who favors Kansas Sen. Bob Dole for the No. 2 spot on the ticket, said he did not know what Thornburgh's chances were of getting the nod.
AP900627-0003 	X	The House on Tuesday rejected legislation to protect homosexuals from harassment after an ugly debate in which one lawmaker labeled colleagues bigots and others called gay men and lesbians perverts. The House defeated the measure 118-80. Its sponsor, Rep. Babette Josephs, a Democrat, said after the vote she was unsure what move to take next, but vowed not to let the issue die. Under the measure, the same state law that gives special protection to religious, racial and ethnic groups would have been extended to include homosexuals. The bill would have extended the tougher penalties for bias crimes to protect people who are thought to be homosexual. ``We have a growing and serious problem of violence against people perceived to be gay or lesbian,'' Ms. Josephs said. ``The problem is real, pervasive and growing.'' In one of the most impassioned speeches of the debate, Rep. Thomas Murphy Jr., said he was disturbed by discussion and jokes around him on the House floor slamming homosexuals. ``This is bigotry in action. You don't have to go a local bar or sports stadium to hear bigotry, you can sit on the House floor and listen to it,'' Murphy said. ``Your snickers say you're bigoted. You don't condone a different lifestyle.'' Opponents of the bill criticized not only the measure, but also homosexuality. ``I feel in my heart and in my gut that to pass this bill is wrong,'' said Rep. Howard Fargo, a Republican. ``It's wrong to do anything legislatively to promote sexual perversion. It's wrong to do anything legislatively that would lead to the further deterioration of the traditional family and its values.'' Supporters said the issue was not one of morality, but of law and order. One group lobbying in favor of its passage, the Pride of Philadelphia Election Committee, which supports gay rights candidates, had distributed a pack of letters from supporters including Gov. Robert Casey's administration. Rep. Karen Ritter, a Democrat, said Pennsylvania had the most homosexual-related murders in the nation last year. ``We are not providing special treatment to perversion as has been suggested. Bigots who are unsure of their own sexuality have already singled out homosexuals for special treatment through violence,'' Ms. Ritter said.
AP880421-0106 	X	Gov. Jim Martin has ordered that Confederate flag bumper plates no longer be sold through privately run businesses that also sell North Carolina license plates and validation stickers. The rebel flag plates had been sold at many of the 125 offices. Martin decided to limit sales of the plates after being questioned about them last week by a group of black business leaders in Winston-Salem, Division of Motor Vehicles Commissioner William Hiatt said Wednesday. Asked whether the plates being sold at the license plate agencies were in good taste, Martin said, ``Probably not.'' The motor vehicles commissioner can cancel a contract with a private license-plate agency with 60 days' notice and without reason, Hiatt said. State license plates go on the backs of vehicles, and motorists often attach other plates on the front bumper.
AP880607-0149 	X	New Mexico Republicans chose from among four candidates Tuesday to try to unseat first-term Democratic Sen. Jeff Bingaman. State Sens. Bill Valentine and Joe Carraro, party activist Corky Morris and former U.S. Interior Department official Rick Montoya each argued that he was the right candidate to mount a successful challenge to the man Republicans believe is too liberal for New Mexico. In the presidential primary, Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis was favored over Jesse Jackson in the race for 24 Democratic delegates. Vice President George Bush was unopposed for 26 Republican delegates. In the state's 1st Congressional District, Republican Rep. Manuel Lujan Jr. was retiring after 20 years. Three Republicans sought the nomination, including Lujan's younger brother Edward, the former state GOP chairman. Eight Democrats sought their party's nomination, including former state Land Commissioner Jim Baca.
AP880413-0277 	X	The state-owned Aeromexico airline cancelled 270 flights Tuesday after 7,500 airline ground crew workers struck to protest the planned sale of 13 aircraft and anticipated firings of workers by the troubled carrier. Aeromexico's 43 aircraft were grounded in airports in Mexico and abroad after unionized ground workers walked off their jobs at 2:00 p.m. EDT, said Enrique Gutierrez Ortega, spokesman for the Aeronave de Mexico parent company. Gutierrez Ortega estimated during a telephone interview that revenue losses would amount to more than $2 million for each day of the strike. The strikers, members of the Aeromexico National Technical Workers Union, were demanding a halt to company plans to sell 13 aircraft and lay off an unspecified number of airline workers to cut operating losses. Some 17,000 airline passengers had their flights cancelled because of the walkout, Gutierrez Ortega said. ``The passengers most affected are those who had flights to New York and Paris'' and were unable to quickly arrange alternative connections, he said. Union spokesman Rene Arce told The Associated Press the strike would continue ``indefinitely as long as the company doesn't revoke its decision to sell the planes and terminate union workers.'' Aeromexico officials were appealing to the federal Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to declare the strike illegal, Gutierrez Ortega said. The government did not plan to take over the nation's second-largest airline to keep it operating, the Communications and Transportation Department said in a statement released Tuesday.
AP900430-0012 	X	You can stomp grasshoppers, spread poison, bash 'em with shovels, or burn the critters if you have to. Now, the Agriculture Department says computers are the latest weapons. If some new software being evaluated by USDA experts, state and county extension agents, consultants and ranchers proves out, the computer programs should ready for general use in another year. Officials at the Grasshopper Integrated Pest Management project in Boise, Idaho, said managing range livestock is so complex that grasshopper control requires a huge amount of information. The computer program under development and testing is intended to put information into the hands of range managers, including the latest on grasshopper population forecasts, timing and selection of control options, range condition assessments, weather data and an economic analysis of management practices. Jim Berry of the department's rangeland insect laboratory at Bozeman, Mont., said in a recent report that many potential users of the new software package have had little experience with computers. ``In fact, some may have an initial reluctance to use a computer-based system,'' he said. ``Therefore, the system is primarily menu-driven, responds quickly, and requires little knowledge about computers to evaluate a variety of management options.'' Meanwhile, the threat to western rangelands and crops is real, not part of a computer program that can be turned on and off by somebody punching buttons. A relative of grasshoppers _ the Mormon cricket _ is merrily chewing its way through parts of Utah and Idaho. These pests, named because they attacked crops of Mormon settlers in Utah in 1848, are also being targeted by USDA scientists. Last week the department's Agricultural Research Service said a one-celled microbe that infects and kills Mormon crickets was being released in field tests in southern Idaho. Entomologist John Henry of Montana State University, Bozeman, said the microbe, a protozoan, was found naturally infecting Mormon crickets in Colorado and Utah. Once it infects a cricket, the organism acts slowly, taking up to 12 days to multiply. The microbes then kill the crickets by consuming body fat. ``It could be the most promising long-term weapon against them,'' Henry said. Aside from the possibility of seagulls appearing and devouring the crickets, as they did in 1848 to save the crops of Mormon settlers, the best bet for immediate action against destructive insects still appears to be pesticide-laced bait and aerial spraying. The anti-grasshopper lobby in Congress has been active lately, including pushes by lawmakers from Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota for more action. As a result, the Senate Appropriations Committee has added $6.8 million to an emergency spending bill to help control an expected grasshopper surge this summer in drought areas of the northern plains. The USDA budget for 1990 includes only $8.7 million for control of hoppers and crickets, primarily on grasslands. Sen. Quentin Burdick, D-N.D., chairman of the agricultural appropriations subcommittee, said only eight grasshoppers per square yard can cause economic losses and that some areas are reporting 1,000 or more hoppers per square yard. The Environmental Protection Agency has been asked to approve an emergency request for the farm use of a pesticide called Asana-XL on grasshopper eggs. The EPA has the request under review.
AP880303-0007 	X	Nancy Reagan says doctors should be more circumspect about commenting in public on the health problems of presidents and their families. In a television interview to be broadcast Friday night, Mrs. Reagan recalled an instance when she and President Reagan were watching television while he was in the hospital recovering from an operation ``and some doctor came on and said, `Well, I'll give him about four or five months.''' ``I thought to myself: Doesn't it ever occur to these people that we might be sitting watching?' What a terrible, terrible statement to make!'' She said Reagan did not react adversely to the doctor's comment but she said he reasonably could have wondered at that moment whether information about his health was being withheld from him. ``It would be a normal reaction,'' she said. Mrs. Reagan made her comments in an interview with Barbara Walters for a segment of the ABC-TV News ``20-20'' program. By coincidence, the program is being shown on the Reagans' 36th wedding anniversary. Mrs. Reagan did not say in the interview what the president was recovering from at the time the gloomy prognosis was broadcast. Nor did she provide any further details. Reagan has undergone several operations during the seven years of his presidency. Recalling her bout with breast cancer, the first lady also said she did not understand the criticism directed at her when she chose to have her breast removed rather than to undergo chemotherapy or radiation treatment. ``I really don't understand the people who criticize,'' she said. ``It was my choice to make. So don't criticize me for making what I thought was the right choice for me. ``You know the whole point about feminism is that you have a choice, that women have a choice. ... ``And I think having doctors who know nothing about the case, who know nothing about you, and know nothing about the case at all coming on giving their opinion, I don't think that's right.''
AP901126-0005 	X	Lawmakers looking for ways to trim the federal deficit can cut defense spending and even raise taxes if they have to. But they have found they'd better not touch Social Security. This year, Social Security will dispense about $265 billion - more than one-fifth of all federal spending. But the program was untouched in the deficit-reduction package enacted last month. And new budget rules make Social Security virtually untouchable in the future. The reason has much to do with the political power of the elderly, but also with the program's overall popularity, analysts and lawmakers say. ``It's a real gut issue,'' said Sen. John D. Rockefeller, D-W.Va. Both Social Security and Medicare, the health care program for the elderly, are ``enormously popular programs,'' noted Henry Aaron, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution. ``The public opinion polls indicate that people would prefer to cut the deficit in any other way.'' That explains why, as lawmakers were voting billions of dollars in new taxes and defense cuts to cut the budget deficit last month, Social Security recipients being were told their benefits would increase 5.4 percent in January. The Bush administration announced this month it was looking at ways to shift government benefits from the wealthy to the poor, but it specifically excluded Social Security. Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., noted that ``members of Congress are still pretty sensitive'' after having to repeal the Medicare catastrophic illness program last year after an outcry by senior citizens who didn't want to pay for it. The program was designed to protect the elderly from financial ruin if they were struck by a devastating illness. A fight over Medicare cuts was one issue that delayed last month's budget agreement. In the final version, Medicare takes a $42 billion hit over five years. About $10 billion of that comes from beneficiaries' pockets. Social Security and Medicare are widely considered the most effective government programs ever to improve the lives of senior citizens. A 1988 Census Bureau report said Social Security benefits lifted 15 million elderly citizens out of poverty in 1986 and cut the poverty rate among the elderly from 47 percent to 14 percent. ``It's done a fantastic job of reducing poverty among the elderly,'' said Robert Ball, former Social Security commissioner. ``About two thirds of beneficiaries get more than half their income from Social Security.'' Social Security and the hospital part of the Medicare program are funded in the same way - with a payroll tax held in a trust fund earmarked solely for that program. Neither program is run like welfare; benefits are given to rich and poor alike. Rather, the criteria are related to age or disability, plus a person's lifetime contributions to the program. ``It's precisely the fact that they're not programs for the poor that gives these programs their unifying force,'' said Gary Burtless, a senior fellow at Brookings. ``People think they have paid and now they're entitled'' to benefits, Aaron said. Judy Schub, senior economic lobbyist at the American Association of Retired Persons, said the elderly tend to think of their Social Security benefits as money that was put away for them, ``that there's a piggy bank with my name on it.'' However, the system is an inter-generational plan, with today's recipients receiving far more than they ever paid into the system. Current workers are paying those benefits. After financial troubles in the early 1980s, Social Security benefits were scaled back in 1983 and other changes were made to keep its trust fund solvent. Now there's a large surplus, and Sen. Daniel Moynihan, D-N.Y., tried this year to reduce the Social Security payroll tax so that money from the program would not grow so quickly and be used to mask the size of the federal budget deficit. His effort was unsuccessful, but others in Congress did succeed in removing the program from the calculations used to determine the federal deficit. That means that cutting Social Security won't help the deficit. Medicare, however, is facing mounting pressure, as inflation in medical costs continues to outpace overall inflation. The reserves in the Medicare hospital insurance trust fund are shrinking and the fund faces bankruptcy in 13 to 15 years unless action is taken, according to the 1990 annual report of the program's Board of Trustees. Ball said he is mindful of Social Security's popularity and the political risk in touching it. ``Changes should be made in Social Security from time to time ... to bring it up to date and make it a better program,'' said Ball, a member of the Social Security Advisory Committee at the Department of Health and Human Services. But, he said, ``The changes should be made for sound Social Security policy, not to reduce the deficit.''
AP900609-0060 	X	A former health minister has called for the legalization of brothels to help fight AIDS, and a poll made public Saturday suggested most French people think it's a good idea. Condemnations have come from across the political spectrum, including women's rights advocates who say lifting the 44-year ban on brothels would amount to state-sanctioned slavery. But a Louis Harris poll indicated strong public support for the suggestion by the former health minister, Michele Barzach, one of the few women with a high profile in French national politics. Of the 1,008 people surveyed, 80 percent said reopening brothels would help control AIDS by allowing closer medical supervision of prostitutes, according to the poll. According to unofficial estimates, France has 75,000 to 90,000 full- or part-time prostitutes. About 10,500 cases of AIDS have been recorded in France since 1982. Ms. Barzach, a 46-year-old gynecologist, was health minister from 1986 to 1988 in the conservative government of Premier Jacques Chirac, and many of her policies stirred controversy. During her tenure, she helped launch campaigns to reduce tobacco and alcohol consumption, denounced surrogate motherhood, cut back on state-paid medical benefits and led a campaign against AIDS that included scrapping a ban on condom advertisements. The current furor was set off by an interview published Thursday in the newspaper Le Monde, in which Ms. Barzach discussed the AIDS threat. ``The current situation is unacceptable and frightening,'' she said. ``It's necessary to reopen the licensed brothels. Let's install a genuine health system.'' Licensed brothels were shut down on April 13, 1946, under the ``Marthe Richard law,'' named for its legislative sponsor, a World War I spy and World War II resistance member. Ms. Barzach now is a deputy to Chirac, mayor of Paris. He took pains Friday to say the brothel proposal was only her personal opinion _ not a position of their Rally for the Republic party. Within the ranks of the governing Socialists, reactions varied from cautious to caustic. Michele Andre, secretary of state for women's rights, said she was ``deeply offended'' by the proposal to ``lock up women and use them as merchandise.'' Health Minster Claude Evin said the problem of acquired immune deficiency syndrome extended far beyond prostitutes and homosexuals, but added: ``I am ready to consider anything that would help stop the spread of AIDS.'' French police officials in the past have expressed support for relegalizing brothels, but they made no formal endorsement of Ms. Barzach's suggestion.
AP900927-0198 	X	One of the hardest times to stick to a low-fat diet is when confronted with a restaurant menu. What's really in all those dishes described so temptingly? Since the average American eats several meals a week away from home, it's important to know. A new pocket-size book can provide some guidance. The ``Guide to Low-Cholesterol Dining Out'' by Harriet Roth (Signet, $1.95), focuses not only on the animal products that contain cholesterol but on high-fat foods that can raise the level of cholesterol in the body. Roth advises diners to ask questions and make requests (such as sauce on the side). More and more restaurants are willing to comply with health-conscious eaters' wishes, said Roth, former director of the Pritikin Longevity Center Cooking School. There are general guidelines and lists of foods to enjoy and avoid at 17 kinds of restaurants, in take-out foods, among beverages and when traveling. She also includes a brief list of requests (such as ``I am on a special low-fat, low-cholesterol diet.'') in French, Spanish, Italian and German. ---
AP901021-0008 	X	Here are the winning numbers picked Saturday night for the California Lottery's twice-weekly ``Lotto 6-53'' game: 9, 38, 6, 29, 7, 20, and the bonus number, 27.
AP900518-0012 	X	A three-judge federal panel on Thursday upheld the authority of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to determine the level of discharges from a Missouri River reservoir in South Dakota and North Dakota. The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals panel overturned a lower court order that releases from the Oahe reservoir be reduced, as had been requested by the drought-stricken states. The appeals panel said it had serious reservations about whether courts have jurisdiction over such decisions by the corps. In a brief order, the panel said it would spell out its legal reasoning later in a formal opinion. The tug-of-war over water rights pitted the corps and the states of Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas and Missouri against North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana over whether water flow should be reduced from the reservoir, which stretches from Pierre, S.D., to near Bismarck, N.D. U.S. District Judge Patrick Conmy in Bismarck had ordered the corps to reduce the discharges by one-third until June 1 so the hatch of walleye pike could be completed in the 232-mile long reservoir. The appeals panel granted an emergency stay of that order last Friday. The corps said the lower water level would threaten barge traffic between Sioux City, Iowa, and St. Louis, a 730-mile shipping channel, and also would jeopardize two species of birds protected by the Endangered Species Act. State officials on both sides of the issue said they were not surprised by the ruling. ``It was expected, anticipated that the judges would rule in our favor. But nonetheless it is good news,'' said Nebraska Gov. Kay Orr in Omaha, Neb. ``The downstream states have to protect our interests from the states upstream,'' she said. North Dakota Attorney General Nicholas Spaeth, who argued the case Wednesday before the panel, said in Bismarck that there probably isn't time to appeal the case to the U.S. Supreme Court. ``We don't have many options,'' said Spaeth. ``It'll be almost impossible to get Supreme Court review in the two weeks we have left.'' North Dakota Gov. George Sinner, speaking from Washington, D.C., expressed strong disappointment with the ruling. ``The upper basin states have continued to give and give and give. We gave up huge amounts of our most fertile land for flood protection for the lower basin states,'' he said. ``Now we're being asked to give up recreation for the lower basin navigation. ``It's patently unfair and we will seek every avenue that we can to get restitution for our people,'' Sinner added. Despite the defeat, South Dakota Gov. George Mickelson said in Sioux Falls, S D., ``it was a battle that had to be fought.''
AP901008-0134 	X	Tropical Storm Klaus, which strengthened after being downgraded to a depression, threatened the Bahamas and contributed to flooding along Florida's Atlantic shores Monday. The National Hurricane Center in suburban Coral Gables was also tracking Tropical Storm Lili, which formed in the central Atlantic but posed no immediate threat to land. At 6 p.m. EDT, Klaus had top winds of 40 mph, just over the threshold of storm strength. Its center was near 22.2 degrees north latitude and 70.8 degrees west longitude, or about 470 miles southeast of Nassau in the Bahamas. Klaus was moving northwest at 15 mph and was expected to continue on that track for the next day or two, forecasters said. Tropical storm warnings were in effect for the central Bahamas in the Caribbean, the northern Bahamas were under a tropical storm watch and a coastal flood watch was in effect for Florida's east coast and Keys. Some increase in strength was likely during the next day for Klaus, which at one point was strong enough to be the sixth hurricane of the season. The storm was expected to strengthen, but wasn't expected to move over Florida, said Bob Sheets, director of the hurricane center. ``We think it's going to move on a northwest course and most likely will not move over Florida, particularly South Florida.'' However, Klaus-related winds were already partly responsible for beach erosion, rough surf and potentially deadly rip currents along Florida's eastern coast, and heavy winds and rain elsewhere in the state, the center said. Klaus killed at least six people and left 1,500 homeless in the northeastern Caribbean before being downgraded Saturday to a typical storm when its top winds dropped below 73 mph. It was downgraded late Sunday to a tropical depression when its winds dipped below 39 mph. Meanwhile, tropical storm Lili at At 6 p.m. was located near 32.7 degrees north latitude and 47.5 degrees west longitude, or about 1,000 miles west-southwest of the Azores, a group of islands off Portugal. Lili, with top winds near 65 mph, was expected to strengthen during the next day as it moved southwest at 7 mph, forecasters said.
AP900808-0209 	X	President Bush said today that the Middle East crisis and the resulting increases in oil prices have not reduced the necessity for a significant deficit-reduction agreement. ``I still think it's absolutely essential to get a budget agreement (with Congress) and that's going to require a lot of principle,'' Bush told a news conference. Congressional leaders and the administration have made little progress in devising a deficit-reduction plan, agreeing only to resume efforts next month. Bush implied that he soon will resume public criticism of Democrats' negotiating posture. ``I don't feel bound by an agreement that I've told the congressional leaders is no longer in effect,'' he said, apparently referring to an earlier concession to tone down political rhetoric about the negotiations. Congressional Republicans are unhappy that Democrats have refused to put forth a specific proposal, even after Bush backed away from a campaign pledge to oppose tax increases. Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole told reporters today the administration is still seeking a $500 billion, five-year deficit-reduction plan. He added, however, that there is little chance of raising gasoline taxes as part of that plan and questioned how deeply defense spending could be cut in light of U.S. military involvement in Saudi Arabia. Key members of Congress say they see no reason to ease up on efforts to reach an agreement. ``If the economy begins to look really bad, every element of the deficit-reduction package will be threatened,'' Rep. Bill Frenzel, R-Minn., ranking Republican on the House Budget Committee, said Tuesday. ``Right now, the major effect is to make an energy tax less likely.'' A military face-off with Iraq also could fuel arguments that slashing the $300 billion defense budget is a bad idea right now. ``It's living proof there are mean people in the world and we need a respectable national defense,'' said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. However, Senate Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser, D-Tenn., said the proposed $10 billion to $15 billion in military cuts ``really aren't that deep in the first place.'' Petroleum prices have jumped several dollars closer to $30 per barrel since Iraq invaded oil-rich Kuwait last week. Fuel costs in the United States are already rising, along with prices for other goods and services such as airline tickets and electricity. Bargainers concede that with fuel prices rising, raising taxes on gasoline or other sources of energy becomes less palatable. ``I think it probably will kill any effort to have a broad-based energy tax,'' Gramm said. Congressional leaders and Bush administration officials have struggled inconclusively since May to forge a package of tax increases and spending cuts totaling $50 billion for next year and $500 billion over five years. The summit talks are on hold for Congress' August recess. Iraq's takeover of Kuwait _ and resulting military and economic moves by the United States and its allies _ means the American economy could be weaker when the bargainers reconvene in September. Negotiators said they would watch economic performance closely. ``Anybody who thinks we're not being forced into a re-evaluation these next few weeks is kidding themselves,'' said House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta, D-Calif. If the economy seems shaky, one option would be to lower the amount of taxes and spending cuts slated for fiscal 1991, which starts Oct. 1. ``Under any circumstances, we need to focus on significant deficit reduction over five years,'' said Panetta. But budget bargainers said no reasons have yet surfaced to shoot for a less ambitious deficit-cutting package. ``I don't think we can see clearly enough into the future to know how much we'll be affected,'' said Frenzel. ``I think the summiteers ought to go forward with the plan we've been discussing.''
AP900404-0175 	X	Police said Wednesday they are checking into reports that the fiery crash of a small plane may have been the result of a suicide-bound passenger who struggled for control of the craft. The Cessna 421 Golden Eagle streaked over the foothills west of Boulder on Sunday, slammed into a tree, then destroyed a vacant house, four garages and six parked cars, engulfing a large section of the residential block in flames. Killed were Gordon Larry Hood, 45, and the pilot, James Wilford ``Bill'' Layne, 56, police said. Eyewitnesses reported that the plane flipped onto its side and went into a power dive, behavior that might reflect a struggle going on in the cockpit, said police spokesman David Grimm. ``Was the pilot overpowered, was the pilot shot, was the pilot stabbed? We just don't know,'' Grimm said. ``As far as we can tell right now, the pilot just happens to be the unfortunate person who got hired that day.'' Police asked the National Transportation Safety Board to allow them back into the crash site after two out-of-state acquaintances told investigators that Hood was suicidal, Grimm said. ``The sources gave us information when we spoke to them that there were indications made to them that Mr. Hood was potentially contemplating suicide and in a manner similar to what occurred,'' Grimm said. ``We thought we were investigating an air accident, and it has turned into something else.'' Authorities released Hood's identity Wednesday, saying he is believed to be from Atlanta, but had recently moved to the Denver area. They believe Hood was a photographer. Layne, an employee of Intensive Air Care, a Denver-based private charter company, had taken Hood to Granby, a mountain community about 80 miles northwest of Denver, and the two were returning to Denver when the plane crashed. ``We don't necessarily get the impression that there was physical struggle going on,'' Grimm said. ``It could simply have been a struggle over control of the aircraft.'' Autopsy results released Tuesday showed Hood and Layne died of injuries suffered in the plane crash and not from other causes, according to Tom Faure, chief medical investigator of the Boulder County coroner's office. Grimm said Hood was seen carrying a briefcase into a post office in Granby, and investigators believe he mailed some cards or letters there. Police are asking anyone who may have received mail from Hood to contact them.
AP880528-0104 	X	President Reagan, the target of embarrassing disclosures in books by former aides, says he probably will write a book of his own to ``straighten out the record and tell things as they really are.'' However, the president indicated he wasn't happy about the idea. ``I don't look forward to it. I wrote a book once and found it was quite a chore,'' said Reagan, the author of a 1965 autobiography entitled ``Where's the Rest of Me.'' Reagan revealed his plans in a televised interview with two Soviet journalists, broadcast Saturday night in the Soviet Union after being taped last week in the Oval Office. ``I've been thinking very seriously about writing a book. In view of the fact that several people who have left government have written some books, I think maybe I better straighten out the record and tell things as they really are,'' Reagan said. He said the presidential library to be built in southern California after he leaves office will house the papers and memorabilia that he collected. ``So there will be a record that is open for public view. But I'll probably get around to writing a book.'' ``For the Record,'' a recent book by former White House chief of staff Donald T. Regan, portrayed Reagan as a hand-off leader whose schedule was guided by astrological forecasts followed by his wife, Nancy. Former White House spokesman Larry Speakes also drew an unflattering portrait of Reagan in his book, ``Speaking Out,'' and said he made up quotes for the president at the Geneva summit with Gorbachev because Reagan was losing the public relations battle. Speakes said he also took words from Secretary of State George P. Shultz and attributed them to Reagan after the Soviet Union shot down a Korean airliner. Speakes said Reagan didn't have anything to say on his own at meetings with key aides.
AP880213-0186 	X	A federal judge Friday sentenced a former state auditor general to six years in prison for racketeering and tax fraud related to ``a sickening pattern of soliciting, accepting and paying bribes.'' Al Benedict, a one-time gubernatorial hopeful, also was fined $20,000 by U.S. Middle District Senior Judge Malcolm Muir, who said the sentence was intended as a deterrent for other public officials. The judge ordered Benedict to surrender to U.S. marshals on March 14. Benedict, 58, pleaded guilty last month to charges of racketeering and tax fraud. The racketeering charge encompassed 10 state bribery-related charges, which the government said occurred between April 1976 and November 1984. Benedict acknowledged accepting bribes in return for hiring and promoting state workers and for awarding no-bid contracts. He also admitted making a $6,000 payoff to a lawmaker in return for a bigger state appropriation for his department. ``I could never express to you how I feel ... the pain, suffering, embarrassment, humiliation,'' Benedict said in court. ``All I can attempt to do is atone for my transgressions and sins.'' Benedict refused to answer reporters' questions as he left the courthouse. His lawyer, Arthur Goldberg, said Benedict was surprised but not angered by the sentence. He could have been sentenced to up to 23 years in prison and $125,000 in fines. Federal prosecutors asked for a light sentence, citing Benedict's cooperation in a continuing investigation of state-government corruption. The defense, in a memorandum filed by Goldberg, asked for a one-year sentence with early parole and a term of public service. The memorandum portrays Benedict, a former television commentator who became de facto head of the state Democratic Party during two terms as auditor general, as a broken, humiliated man. It also places the blame for Benedict's predicament on his former top aide, John Kerr, who was convicted of masterminding the job-selling scheme. Kerr was sentenced to two to five years in prison and remains free on bail. He led investigators to Benedict late in 1986. Among the spectators at the sentencing was Joanne Dwyer, widow of state Treasurer R. Budd Dwyer. Her husband killed himself during a news conference last year, one day before he was to be sentenced by Muir on bribery-conspiracy charges. She criticized the plea-bargaining system that allowed Benedict to shorten his prison term and said her husband never got a chance to bargain because he was innocent and had been framed.
AP900911-0210 	X	Drug cases have clogged urban courts, delayed civil matters, overcrowded jails and stirred new debate over the best possible solution _ legalization or more judges. ``If you want to look at the largest single cause of caseload glut, drugs are it,'' said Albert Alschuler, professor at the University of Chicago Law School. ``We're having fewer and fewer trials, particularly on the civil side. No one can afford to wait. The system's just become unworkable.'' Much of the impact is on state courts, which process about 97 percent of drug arrests. But the federal system also is feeling the crunch. Consider: _ Drug cases in federal courts increased by 280 percent since 1980, Chief Justice William Rehnquist said last December in his annual end-of-the-year report. He urged Congress to act immediately on a proposal to create new judgeships. In July, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved a measure to create 77 new judgeships. The bill is pending in the Senate. _ Federal drug cases represented more than 26 percent of new criminal filings, and up to 60 percent in some districts, Rehnquist said. Nearly 55 percent of criminal appeals involved drug offenses, compared with 30 percent in 1980. _ The drug caseload rose by 56 percent in 17 big-city courts between 1983 and 1987, according to a 1989 report, ``The Impact of Drug Cases on Case Processing in Urban Trial Courts.'' Among the major increases: Boston _ 175 percent; Jersey City, N.J. _ 114 percent; the Bronx borough of New York City _ 109 percent; and Oakland, Calif. _ 95 percent. _ Drug-related cases made up about a quarter of felonies disposed of in 26 big-city courts in 1987, the report said. It noted that number actually is low because it doesn't count incidents in which drugs were involved but didn't constitute the most serious charge. The situation has turned even grimmer since then; in Detroit, the percentage of state court drug cases more than doubled from 1987 to 1989, said John Goerdt, the report's co-author and senior staff attorney at the National Center for State Courts. Drug cases, he added, are ``starting to show up in family courts, in juvenile courts, with abused and neglected kids.'' When courts are stressed, ``nobody can render the same quality of justice,'' said James Fyfe, a criminal justice professor at American University in Washington, D.C. ``We all know the old saw that justice delayed is justice denied. ... Evidence disappears. Recollections grow dimmer.'' Complicating matters, experts say, are new mandatory sentencing laws, leading some defendants to seek trial rather than pleading guilty, adding to the backlog. In Goerdt's report, jury trials in the 26 big-city courts disposed of only 6 percent of all felonies in 1987. While some propose more staff, U.S. District Judge Robert W. Sweet in New York last year became the first federal judge to publicly advocate drug legalization. The burden is so great, he said, that in September 1989, no federal juries in Manhattan were available to hear civil trials. Others who have previously supported legalization include Baltimore Mayor Kurt Schmoke and conservative columnist William F. Buckley. Regardless of different proposals, experts agree the impact is enormous. ``The taxpayers are spending lots of money to warehouse people in jail,'' Alschuler said. ``(Inmates) are sleeping on floors on mattresses. ... Everybody in the system suffers.''
AP901002-0024 	X	Students barricaded inside a building at the University of the District of Columbia say they may give some members of the school's board of trustees until March 31 to resign. Leaders of the protest, which began Wednesday, had said the students wouldn't leave the building unless the 11 mayoral appointees to the 15-member board submitted letters of resignation immediately. However they softened that demand on Monday. ``That gives everybody six months to determine whether or not there are some members we want to reinstate or some we want to replace,'' protest leader Mark Thompson said. The protesters are demanding extensive changes in the way the 12,000-student university is run and improvements in several athletic and academic programs. They say the board has allowed the quality of the school to decline and put the accreditation of some of its departments in jeopardy. The students and the board have reached agreement on nearly all of the students' other demands. But negotiations remain stalemated on the issue of resignations, with most of the board refusing to quit. ``It would not appear to be in the best interests of the university for them to quit,'' UDC spokesman John Britton said. ``We've made progress, and honestly, the dialogue has become a bit more candid and a bit more cordial, but we're still discussing and neither side has really bent any,'' Thompson said. Thompson said about 500 students remained in the building Monday, down from the 1,000 he said participated in the demonstrations this weekend. Trustees have estimated the number of students involved from 150 to 300. Thompson said protesters were successful in persuading most students to stay away from classes Monday, despite administrators having officially opened the university for the first time since demonstrations began. ``As far as we are concerned, school is still closed,'' Thompson said. All buildings except an administration building occupied by the students were reopened. But instructors were seen conducting classes with fewer than 10 students each. Two trustees have agreed to resign for personal reasons, Britton said, but the protests had not forced the actions. A third trustee has agreed to quit because of illness, Thompson said. Trustee Nira Long has agreed to step down as board chairwoman but has refused to leave the board.
AP880609-0057 	X	Russian sailors danced in this remote American outpost during a shore-leave blowout celebrating the recent U.S.-Soviet fisheries agreement. More than 600 Soviet sailors, many clutching fistfuls of dollars, arrived late Tuesday in this Aleutian Island town of about 1,900 people 800 miles southwest of Anchorage. They were treated to rock music, mounds of food and gallons of various beverages, welcome sights and sounds for Soviet sailors who had been at sea more than six months. ``This is the first time I meet Americans,'' said Alexander Cherkov, first mate aboard the vessel Semiozernoye. ``Americans are very nice people.'' ``These people are real people,'' an American fisherman who identified himself only as Captain America slurred as he staggered off, his arms around two Soviet seamen. ``Just like you and me. Can you believe it?'' The party was held partly to celebrate the fisheries agreement President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev signed during last week's Moscow summit meeting. The agreement allows U.S. vessels to fish in Soviet waters and use Soviet ports, and joint fishing and conservation in the North Pacific. Soviet seamen have been coming here for the past three years or so, but Mayor Paul Fuhs said he could not remember when more Soviets had visited at one time. ``This is great, just great,'' said a beaming Fuhs, who also played with one of the rock bands. ``Where else could this happen?'' Fuhs finished the evening with a red carnation tucked behind his ear. ``It was one of those nights,'' he said. As the party picked up steam, a Soviet maritime officer in full uniform tried to make his way across the windblown town dock jammed with hundreds of dancing people, but was beseiged by giggling children. He stopped, put down his coat and began playing games with them. Soviet sailors showered toys, candy and other gifts on any child in sight. Americans and Soviets struggled to converse, and traded pins, hats and anything else not nailed down. While music blared from the rusty flatbed trailer that served as a bandstand, the Soviets showed old flickering black-and-while films of Lenin and Soyuz space launches on a screen dangling from the side of a ship. Soviet sailors lined up to have their pictures taken with police officers. Off to the side, a young Soviet seaman quietly played a guitar for an American girl. By night's end, the sailors had to help one another back aboard their vessels; many townspeople were in no better shape. ``The party was a success,'' Harbormaster Gary Daily said early Wednesday. ``Everybody seems to have survived.'' ``This is the greatest thing that's ever happened to Soviet-American relations,'' said Dianna Matthias, lead observer of the Soviet fleet for the National Marine Fisheries Service. ``I never, never again want to hear that these people and Americans can't get along.'' ``I love these guys,'' said Ed Cameron, a fisherman from Tacoma, Wash. ``This is the fishermen's summit. ... I could never raise a hand or gun to any of them. If we ever have a war with them, I'll be a conscientious objector.'' The Soviets started coming ashore at Dutch Harbor for crew rests around 1985, said Mark Dudley, Dutch Harbor manager of Maritime Resources Co. International, a joint U.S.-Soviet fishing venture. ``Word spread like wildfire in the Soviet fleet,'' Dudley said, yelling to be heard over the music. ``And every year after that there have been more and more calls.'' He said his company expects its Soviet vessels to make about 30 port calls by year's end. Town officials said they expect perhaps 10 additional Soviet ships. Each ship's crew is given up to $20,000 to spend here, Dudley said. The sailors come ashore to buy American and Japanese goods. Before the party, they descended on stores to stock up on such goods as music tapes, portable radio-tape decks, solar powered watches, ice cream and gum _ lots of gum. ``My kids call it hooba booba,'' said Alexander Mokhov, captain of the Mys Chassavoi, a 285-foot fish processor. ``They want nothing else. If the gum sticks to your hair, they know it is good gum.''
AP881114-0072 	X	Here are highlights of Monday's Supreme Court actions.
AP881209-0098 	X	The 10 men who flew the two Arizona-based planes fired on over Mauritania were a close-knit group dedicated to ridding western Africa of locusts, their families said. One of the planes was shot down Thursday and officials said all five people aboard were killed. A second DC-7 was damaged in the anti-aircraft missile attack but was able to land at a remote airstrip in Morocco. No injuries were reported among those aboard. No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack. A co-owner of the downed DC-7 identified those who were killed as: Joel Blackmer, 46; his son, Frank Kennedy, 21, of Phoenix; Bernard Rossini, 49, of Tempe, Ariz.; Frank Hederman, 47, of Cody, Wyo.; and Wes Wilson, of Hershey, Neb. Sergio Tomassoni, 64, a co-owner of T & G Aviation in Chandler, Ariz., said in a telephone interview from Agadir, Morocco, that he was aboard the other T & G Aviation DC-7. ``We were just flying along at about 11,000 feet when, all of a sudden, the first airplane was hit,'' Tomassoni said. ``We saw the smoke and a big ball of fire. One of the engines was in flames. The plane started losing altitude, and then the right wing blew off. I knew they were in trouble, but we had problems of our own.'' The planes were under contract to the U.S. Agency for International Development to spray locust swarms in Senegal, he said. They were fired on near where Marxist rebels have been fighting Morocco for an independent Western Sahara. ``All my dad wanted to do was take some of his skills to help other people,'' said Kara Rossini, 22, of St. Paul, Rossini's daughter. ``He was the kind of guy who would look at the little Ethiopian kids with the big bellies and cry. He ends up getting shot by a bunch of creeps who probably are going to get some of the food from this effort,'' she said. The 10 men who made up the crews were friends who loved to spend time talking shop about airplanes and aviation, Tomassoni said. Tomassoni's wife, Lydia, of Chandler, said her husband survived another tragedy in 1986 on another pesticide-spraying mission in Senegal. His plane, another DC-7, developed engine trouble and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean, she said. Three others died, but Tomassoni survived. ``Nothing bothers those idiots,'' Mrs. Tomassoni said. ``They're all ex-servicemen. That's their life.''
AP900627-0110 	X	The City Planning Commission on Wednesday approved the construction of a $25 million biomedical laboratory on the site where Malcolm X was slain, provided a substantial portion of the building is preserved. That includes 40 percent of the Audubon Ballroom, including the stage on which the black nationalist leader was shot o Feb. 21, 1965. In May, the commission had deferred a decision on a plan to demolish the ballroom at Broadway and 165th Street, across from Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Followers of Malcolm X objected. Applicants for the research building were Columbia University and the city. It is to get funding from the Municipal Assistance Corp. and state urban development aid. The project still has to be approved by the city's Board of Estimate. Malcolm X headed the Harlem mosque of the Black Muslims but split with Black Muslim leader Elijah Muhammad in 1963. Malcolm X then formed the Organization of Afro-American Unity, which promoted black nationalism but admitted the possibility of interracial brotherhood.
AP900407-0139 	X	The owner of the building that housed an illegal social club where 87 people were killed in a fire has been accused in lawsuits by his brother and sister of ruining the family real estate business. The Daily News and The New York Times reported in their Sunday editions that the siblings of Alex DiLorenzo III accuse him of making speculative commodities investments, buying failing businesses and acquired buildings in need of repairs. Alex DiLorenzo last week surrendered to authorities on 43 arrest warrants for outstanding building code violations, including one violation at the Happy Land social club in the Bronx, where the fire occurred last month. The other 42 concerned citations at various Manhattan properties. DiLorenzo's brother, Marc, and sister, Lisa, sued to wrest control of two family partnerships which have about 250 holdings valued in court papers at as much as $1.2 billion, the Times said. At the family's request, the pending case has been sealed. In one decision before the sealing, Manhattan state Supreme Court Justice Harold Baer credited Alex DiLorenzo with increasing the success of the family business. Baer in December rejected Marc DiLorenzo's motion to have Alex removed as head of the business. Among the non-real estate transactions questioned in the lawsuit, the News said, was Alex DiLorenzo's involvement in a firm that began to sell frozen cow embryos and bull semen to Third World countries. Five brokers who have worked with the DiLorenzo family said Alex failed to follow his late father's pattern of buying established, expensive properties, the Times said. The DiLorenzo business was left in trust to the three children when their father died in 1975. Alex DiLorenzo administered the trust. Several years ago, Marc DiLorenzo, under terms allowed in the trust, asked that the partnership be broken into three equal parts and distributed. Alex DiLorenzo refused and his siblings sued.
AP900720-0130 	X	State health officials complained Friday that the Agriculture Department has left them to their own devices in the fight against salmonella enteritidis, a potentially fatal form of bacteria found in raw or undercooked eggs. ``The absence of a coordinated federal response has left states with no alternative but to take strong action to protect their citizens from contaminated food often produced in other states,'' John J. Guzewich of the New York State Health Department told a congressional oversight panel. Robert Flentge of the Illinois Public Health Department complained about ``mixed signals at the federal level'' and interference with his department. A.B. Park of the Maryland Agriculture Department said state officials began tracing eggs and testing chickens while federal officials were debating whether salmonellosis is a poultry disease. The witnesses appeared before the oversight and investigations subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The panel's chairman, Rep. John D. Dingell, D-Mich., alleged that the Agriculture Department was late in recognizing the growing number of outbreaks traced to the bacteria and withheld information from the Food and Drug Administration, which also regulates the food supply. Poisoning from the enteritidis form of salmonella has been increasing steadily since 1982 and is most likely to be fatal among the very old, the very young and others whose immune systems are weak, according to the Centers for Disease Control. The agency says the increase is directly related to contamination of Grade A eggs that are eaten raw or undercooked. Infection has been spread through scrambled, poached and over-easy eggs, as well as in home-made ice cream, cole slaw, sauces and dressings. Since 1985, there have been 217 outbreaks responsible for 7,370 cases of infection. Of those cases, 44 resulted in death, CDC says. Health officials say tracing the food poisoning to a particular flock is by nature difficult and is made more difficult by the lack of effective regulation. Even an infected flock may produce only one contaminated egg in 1,000, said Dr. Robert Tauxe of the Centers for Disease Control. Testing all chickens before allowing their eggs to be shipped is also impossible for now, he said. Organ cultures are required to find the bacteria. The problem can become worse when the eggs reach a restaurant, nursing home or institution, said Tauxe. One contaminated egg can contaminate a bowl of 500, he said. The state officials complained that federal inspections are limited to brood hens that produce the laying hens, even though environmental contamination remains a real risk. They also complained that no recall provision exists for eggs that have reached the market, and that no effective way exists for tracing eggs.
AP901019-0135 	X	Iraq on Friday ordered all foreigners in occupied Kuwait to report to authorities or face punishment, and announced it would ration gasoline to save imported chemicals used in refining fuel. The gasoline rationing was the latest indication that international trade sanctions against Iraq are having an impact. The U.N. embargo was imposed two months ago to force Iraq out of Kuwait, which it invaded Aug. 2. In New York, there was good news about oil. Prices were down $2.00 a barrel in early afternoon trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange to $34.70. Traders said prices eased after conciliatory remarks by an Iraqi official. Iraq's deputy prime minister, Taha Yassin Ramadan, said Thursday in Amman, Jordan, that he thought both sides in the crisis were reassessing their positions and that peace talks could be in the offing. But in Washington, President Bush said he saw no chance for compromise in the Persian Gulf crisis. ``I am as determined as I was the day the first troop left, that Saddam Hussein's aggression not be rewarded by some compromise,'' Bush said in a meeting with Italian-American leaders. Bush met later with a Soviet envoy, Yevgeny Primakov, who said he agreed that the world should not relax its insistence on an unconditional Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. ``One cannot allow a situation where actions that are incompatible with a civilized society would be in order,'' Primakov said after the meeting. A report published in Iraqi newspapers Friday said all foreigners in Kuwait must register with local authorities before Nov. 5. Those who fail to do so ``will be responsible before the law, and their residency cards will be canceled,'' the report said. Under Iraqi law, foreigners found without residency cards are punished with fines and imprisonment. The exceptions are citizens from Arab Cooperation Council nations - Egypt, Jordan and Yemen. About 400,000 foreigners are believed in Kuwait, including 2,000 Westerners that the U.S. State Department says are hiding from Iraqi soldiers. Hundreds more are held in Iraq, many at strategic sites to deter attack by the multinational force. About 200,000 U.S. soldiers and thousands from other nations are facing an estimated 430,000 Iraqi troops in the region. Saddam's forces overran his southern neighbor in a dispute over oil, land and money. With Kuwaiti oilfields, his share of world reserves increased to 20 percent, second only to Saudi Arabia. Despite Iraq's vast reserves, the Oil Ministry announced Friday gasoline rationing would begin next week. The U.N. embargo on Iraq has squeezed Baghdad's supply of imported chemicals used in refining oil. ``There is nothing to get worried about. ... The rationing is just a precaution,'' said oil minister Issam Abdul-Rahim al-Chalabi.``There is a lot of waste and by introducing the rationing we are going to cut that waste.'' Iraq is already rationing food staples such as milk, meat and bread. Baghdad says there are shortages of all such products - and many more. Car owners were ordered to pick up ration coupons at special centers, although the minister did not say how much gasoline would be allocated to each person or how long the rationing would last. Iraqis rushed to gasoline stations to stock up on gasoline Friday and long lines formed outside gas stations. In Moscow, U.S. Defense Secretary Richard Cheney praised Soviet cooperation in bringing diplomatic and economic pressure to bear on Iraq and said ``we have not given up on that policy.'' ``I have also made it clear ... that we have not ruled out other options,'' said Cheney. He declined to speculate on possible U.S. military steps. Cheney later traveled to Paris for three days of talks with the French government on cooperation in the gulf crisis. France has deployed 13,000 troops in the gulf, the second-largest Western contingent after the United States. At the United Nations, the Security Council was considering a resolution that would allow nations hurt by Iraq's invasion to seek reparations from Baghdad's frozen assets abroad or against its future oil earnings, diplomats said. The resolution also threatens Baghdad with unspecified ``further enforcement measures,'' condemns Iraq's human rights violations in Kuwait, and demands that Iraq release all Western hostages, the diplomats said. No vote has yet been scheduled on the new resolution, they said. It would be the 10th U.N. Security Council resolution condemning Iraq. In other developments: -U.S. military officials in Saudi Arabia said there had been 2,500 interceptions, 240 boardings and 11 ``diversions'' of commercial ships since the embargo against Baghdad was imposed. -Iraqi troops have placed explosives at oil fields, gas and gasoline storage tanks as well as on bridges and viaducts in Kuwait, according to Sheik Mishal Mohammed al-Sabah, a member of the emirate's exiled ruling family. He was quoted as telling the Amsterdam newspaper De Telegraaf that Iraq plans to blow up the facilities if its soldiers are forced to withdraw. -Canada suspended operations at its embassy in Kuwait, Ottawa said Friday. Saddam ordered embassies in Kuwait closed after he annexed the emirate, and although only the British, French and U.S. embassies now remain open, most nations still recognize Kuwait as a separate nation.
AP900526-0133 	X	About 90 campers, some in trees, were rescued Saturday after heavy rains caused a creek of the Mineral Fork River to rise and flood several campgrounds, authorities said. ``You could see them hanging in the tops of the trees, waving flashlights and screaming for help,'' said Dennis Spradling, a firefighter for the Potosi Fire Protection District. Dozens of people, including Washington County sheriff's deputies, firefighters from about 15 area departments and volunteers, used boats to help rescue campers near this eastern Missouri town, Spradling said. The water was over Highway 21, hampering rescuers' efforts, he said. The river already had been high, following persistent rains through most of May. The call for help came in about 12:30 a.m., Spradling said. People were rescued from four campgrounds just south of Washington State Park, about 13 miles north of Potosi. They were taken to a nearby school. There were no major injuries, Spradling said. Three boats sank in the rain and fast-moving water. By mid-afternoon Saturday, the high water was receding and authorities were checking campers, other vehicles and camping equipment. There were no reports of missing people, Spradling said. The area got about 2.5 inches of rain in the 24 hours ending at John Feldt of the National Weather Service said the area got about 2.5 inches of rain in the 24 hours ending at 7 a.m. Saturday. He said the heaviest rain was in central Missouri, with Iberia getting about 6 inches in that period.
AP900124-0096 	X	Q: Mr. President, given the weakness of the dollar and the turmoil in the financial markets and the recent poor economic indicators, what are you going to do to calm the economy _ calm the markets and keep the economy from sliding into a recession? A: Well, one thing I'm not going to do is comment on levels of the market, except to say that there's been a substantial increase over the last year, and some are reading the recent couple of days as corrections, although I gather it recovered a little bit yesterday, and the market has always been an indicator, and it's been one that's been read quite positively. But I don't want to get into market levels. What I do want to do is establish sound policies, and I'm convinced that if we can get the cooperation of Congress that we need on reducing the deficit, that that will go a long way, not market prices but in terms of the fundamentals on the economy. It's slowed down a little. There's a lot of prediction that it will be slow for a while and then have a rather robust step-up come summer. But I don't know. All I know is that we've got to not bash anybody but get out there and try to enact policies that will help keep the longest recovery in modern history going. Q: You said that you felt that there was room for further reduction of interest rates. Given the need to attract foreign investment from overseas where rates are high, how do you square that with your call for lower interest rates? A: You mean to attract -- Q: Attract foreign investment to cover the U.S. deficit and yet though we're competing against the foreign investment _ A: I think that people see U.S. _ the U.S. still, regardless of what's temporary out there, as the safest haven for investment anywhere in the world, and I want to conduct the fiscal policies of this government so they will continue to see it that way. John, then Charles, then we'll take -- Q: Going back to the vote on the Chinese student visas, you and your people have been trying to get that vote delayed. Is that because you have some indications from the Chinese that they may soon release Fang Lizhi ... A: No. Q: ... and if this vote goes against you, it could hurt his chances? A: No, it is not, but I don't think it will help his chances. But I would love to see that step taken by the Chinese. But it isn't _ there's not a _ I think we're reconciled to the fact that the vote will go forward tomorrow in the Senate. Q: When you try to defend your China policy, one thing you never do is talk about the ``China card.'' You seem to hate that expression, even though when Kissinger and Nixon were doing it, it was considered a master stroke of foreign policy, playing the Chinese off against the Soviets. If Gorbachev does fall from power and is succeeded by men whose role model is Joe Stalin, aren't you going to have to play the China card, too? A: I don't think you ``play a card.'' I think that's gratuitously offensive to the Soviets and to the Chinese. But one of the reasons I want to stay engaged is that there are geopolitical reasons to have good relations or improved relations even under these unsatisfactory conditions. And it's going to be hard to do because of the human rights setback. But I want to have some contact. I want to retain contact because, as you look around the world, take a look at Cambodia. Take a look at Japan. Take a look at a lot of countries in the Pacific. China is a key player. And I'd like to think that our representations will have them move forward on the human rights side so we can have a more normalized relationship with them. Q: Mr. President, regarding the Soviet Union, have you in the course of these events going on in Baku, or any of your senior people _ I see General Scowcroft is here _ been in touch with Mr. Gorbachev or his people to discuss how severe it is, and ... A: Well, we've had contact with them. I don't remember when my last contact was with Mr. Gorbachev, but it didn't relate specifically to the Baku. Q: Could I then follow, sir, to ask you to reconcile, if you can, the position that you've taken that you say you want Mr. Gorbachev to survive and succeed, and on the other hand, you have areas of the Soviet Union such as the Baltics that you do not recognize as being part of the Soviet Union, and where you say you favor an independent pursuit of their own destiny. Does he succeed if they secede? A: Well, he _ that's again, at this juncture the U.S. position is well known, and you've stated it correctly, that we have not recognized the status of the Baltics. However, what I say that we want to do is to encourage Mr. Gorbachev's stand that peaceful change is the order of the day. And he's sorting out some very difficult internal problems in these three Baltic countries. And I don't think it helps facilitate things for us to fine tune all that. They know our position. I talked to him about this, incidentally, at Malta. But the thing I think is that, in looking at the Soviet scene there, that he is still adhering as best he can to the concept of peaceful change in the Baltics. And that's got to dominate.
AP880425-0092 	X	An Israeli court today sentenced John Demjanjuk to be executed for war crimes committed as ``Ivan the Terrible,'' a sadistic Nazi guard who ran gas chambers where about 800,000 Jews died. ``He was a chief hangman who with his own hands killed tens of thousands with cruelty ... We sentence him to death,'' said Judge Zvi Tal. Onlookers clapped and shouted as the sentence was announced. Some chanted ``Bravo.'' Others shouted: ``Death, death.'' Last week, the court convicted the 68-year-old retired Ohio autoworker of Nazi war crimes. It said he was responsible for the deaths of thousands of Jews at the Treblinka concentration camp in Nazi-occupied Poland. About 800,000 Jews died in 1942 and 1943, when ``Ivan'' worked at the camp. Only one man has ever been executed in Israel's 40-year history. Adolf Eichmann, architect of the Holocaust, was hanged in 1962. Court Spokesman Yossi Hassin said Demjanjuk would most likely be hanged. ``If the sentence is upheld on appeal, the expectation is he would be hanged,'' Hassin said. Demjanjuk attended today's sentences in a wheelchair, complaining of back problems. He entered the courtroom moments before the verdict was read, shouting in Hebrew: ``I am innocent.'' A Christian, he was seen making the sign of the cross and whispering to himself, apparently praying, during arguments from prosecutors who demanded the death penalty. After the verdict he was wheeled away, expressionless and ringed by riot police. Demjanjuk's lawyers have said they will appeal his conviction to the Supreme Court. Today's sentence followed a trial that lasted 14 months. Yosef Czarny, a Treblinka survivor who testified against Demjanjuk, said that although ``a thousand deaths cannot compensate for what happened ... at least we have judged one of the Angels of Death.'' ``I feel like a burden has been lifted,'' said Pinchas Epstein, another Holocaust survivor. Tal's statement after three hours of judicial deliberation drew applause and whistling from hundreds of Israelis in the audience, including survivors of the Holocaust. Several hundred onlookers crowded into the converted movie theater to hear the verdict. Earlier, longtime observers said they expected the death penalty because of the sweeping guilty verdict which discounted each defense argument. ``There is no forgiveness in the law or the heart ... (Holocaust) victims are still crying out to us,'' said Tal, who was born in Poland. ``Even a thousand deaths cannot compensate.'' Demjanjuk's son, 22-year-old John Jr., said his family had expected a death sentence. ``It amounts to nothing less than the judicial murder of an innocent man,'' he said. ``It will bring shame to the state of Israel, the Israeli Justice Department, the U.S. Justice Department, and most unfortunately the six million victims of the Nazi Holocaust.'' Earlier in the day, his father told the three-judge panel it was making a ``very, very, very big mistake.'' The Ukrainian-born Demjanjuk has consistently alleged he is a victim of mistaken identity, although he admitted lying on his American emigration papers about his past. He contends he was held in a Nazi prisoner of war camp during the critical period in question. ``I am not Ivan the Terrible, and to that God is the most just witness. He knows I am innocent,'' Demjanjuk told the court today. He spoke in Ukrainian. The court adjourned briefly after Demjanjuk spoke to allow the judges time to consider the arguments. The defense also had pleaded against a death sentence. ``There is also a question of an individual's holocaust,'' said defense attorney John Gill of Cleveland. ``The taking of any innocent human life is a holocaust.'' Opening the proceedings today, prosecutor Yona Blattman told the three judges that Demjanjuk ``was not a small cog in the Nazi machine, he was a major criminal, an arch-henchman.'' ``We maintain the only punishment that can be imposed on the accused is the death penalty,'' Blattman argued. Demjanjuk pointed to his chest, shaking his head no, as Blattman alleged that Demjanjuk had ``distinguished himself by the sheer brutality of his behavior ... beating Jews mercilessly with a sword or whip.'' Gill said the conviction could be shown at a later date to have been incorrect and he cited previous wrongful convictions. The problem with the death penalty, he said, is that it ``is in fact irrevocable.'' In its verdict last week, the tribunal convicted Demjanjuk ``without hesitation or doubt'' of being the brutal guard at Treblinka. The three judges said Demjanjuk ``killed masses of human beings with his own hands,'' frequently exceeding the brutality ordered by Nazi commanders. Nazi war crimes and terrorism are the only offenses punishable by death in the Jewish state. During the trial, five Holocaust survivors identified Demjanjuk, of suburban Cleveland, as the Nazi guard who operated Treblinka's gas chambers. Justice Minister Avraham Sharir had urged the death penalty for Demjanjuk, saying ``a man convicted of such terrible crimes deserves no other sentence.''
AP880715-0198 	X	Republican National Convention officials said Friday their $15 million makeover of the Louisiana Superdome is already about 20 percent complete just five days after they took over the massive arena to prepare for next month's convention. ``We are on schedule or ahead of schedule on every phase,'' convention manager Bill Phillips told reporters during a guided tour of the dome. Work was being done on the framework of a huge, $570,000 podium from which President Reagan, Vice President Bush and other dignitaries will adress the 31,000 people expected to attend the convention, which runs Aug. 15-18. Phillips said the Republican Party is spending about $9 million on the convention. The city of New Orleans is raising about $5.5 million through private contributions to pay for the sound and light systems and other projects. ``Basically, we're looking at a $15 million operation,'' Phillips said. Best known as an indoor football stadium, the dome is looking less and less like the home of the New Orleans Saints and more and more like a media center. Four television networks will have tall, multi-level booths near the podium. Carpenters and electricians worked to convert suites known as skyboxes, which overlook the floor from the perimeter of the stadium, into broadcast booths for other radio and television broadcasters. Arising on either side of the podium was the framework for the structures from which print journalists will observe the proceedings. Still to come is the hanging of the nine-story high, three-ton blue curtain that will serve as a room divider for the dome. Public convention business will be conducted for the cameras on one side while trailers, used as offices, will be driven onto the floor behind the curtains. Phillips said construction should be completed by Aug. 10, giving convention officials plenty of time to run tests on equipment before the convention begins. Once the convention ends, the construction work begins again _ in reverse. The Republicans' agreement with the Superdome calls for the stadium to be restored to its original condition by Aug. 25.
AP900320-0201 	X	The U.S. trade deficit, bloated by a record demand for foreign oil, worsened dramatically in January, climbing to $9.3 billion, the government said today. The Commerce Department said the January deficit was 20.5 percent larger than December's $7.7 billion imbalance. Most of the deterioration came from a 44 percent surge in oil shipments. The January deficit was an ominous beginning for the new decade. Many analysts believe America's trade woes will worsen in coming years as U.S. dependence on foreign oil grows. For January, exports climbed to an all-time high of $32.1 billion, 4 percent above the December level. However, this gain was swamped by a 7.3 percent surge in imports, which increased to $41.3 billion. The trade deficit, the difference between imports and exports, was the largest since a $10.1 billion imbalance in November. At the White House, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the January increase showed export growth has been outpacing growth in imports. ``These numbers are pretty much as expected due to the deficit drop in December, which was the lowest in five years. Everyone seemed to realize they couldn't maintain that low level, and so it was expected that there would be an increase in January,'' Fitzwater said. The U.S. trade deficit has been improving for the past two years, falling to $109 billion last year, down 8 percent from 1988. But many economists predicted the 1990 deficit could begin rising again because of the oil bill and gains in the value of the dollar. A stronger U.S. currency makes imports cheaper for Americans and U.S. products less competitive on overseas markets. The huge 44 percent surge in oil imports did not come as a surprise, with analysts blaming the rise on December's record cold weather, which caused oil companies to import heavily in January to restock depleted supplies. The total volume of oil, 291,278 barrels, was an all-time high, topping a previous record set in August. Prices shot up to $20.13 per barrel, pushing the total oil bill to $5.86 billion, the highest total dollar amount snce August 1982, a month when the volume was less but the price per barrel was higher. The American Petroleum Institute has reported that foreign oil accounted for a record 54 percent of consumption in January as domestic production fell to its lowest level in a quarter century. Another factor swelling the deficit in January was a 31 percent surge in imports of clothing, which totaled $3.1 billion in January. As usual, the deficit with Japan was the largest of any country. However, at $2.9 billion, it was at the lowest level since December 1984. The Bush administration has been pressing the Japanese to do more to purchase U.S. exports as a way of reducing the huge annual deficit of $49 billion that America is running with Japan. Other big deficits included Taiwan, $1.2 billion; China, $800 million; Canada, $600 million, and the countries of Western Europe, $300 million. Many economists are worried that the deficit will worsen even further in coming months. Michael Evans, head of a Washington forecasting company, said he was looking for the deficit for all of 1990 to total between $120 billion and $125 billion, which would make it the second worst imbalance on history. The all-time high was a $152.1 billion deficit in 1987. ``Without a weaker dollar, we are just not going to get an improvement in trade,'' Evans said. ``We are destined to have bad trade numbers for some time.'' Such a forecast could spell trouble for the Bush administration, which is counting on further gains in exports to help boost the fortunes of American manufacturers and dampen protectionist sentiments in Congress. Last month, President Bush held a hastily arranged meeting in California with Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu to press demands that Japan do more to reduce its trade gap with the United States, which amounted to $49 billion last year. Kaifu promised to make reduction of trade tensions a top priority, but U.S. critics question whether the verbal commitments will be turned into significant market-opening moves. Sen. John Danforth of Missouri, the ranking Republican on the Senate trade subcommittee, said Monday that Japanese officials he met with in Tokyo last week appeared to be more willing to address U.S. complaints about their closed markets. ``There was a recognition that the time had come to redress the grievances we had,'' said Danforth, who has been a leading critic of both Japanese trade practices and the way Bush and former President Reagan addressed them. But Danforth told reporters, ``I remain skeptical that the ... talks are going to lead to the kind of concrete results we hope for.'' He said the talks will have to produce more specific sales of U.S. products to Japan as well as a broader general commitment by Tokyo to removing impediments.
AP881217-0069 	X	Ten years ago, three days before Christmas, Dr. Robert Stein was getting ready for bed when the phone rang. It was a routine call for a medical examiner _ police had found two bodies. But there was nothing routine about the case that began unfolding that night, when Stein was called to the home of John Wayne Gacy. Stein looked out a window and grimaced at the snow that was burying Chicago, then dressed warmly for the drive to Norwood Park Township just east of O'Hare International Airport. He walked into Gacy's ranch-style home and caught a whiff of trouble. ``It was the odor of death,'' Stein said, recalling that two evidence technicians had found two decaying bodies in the crawl space. ``I said, `Oh brother, let's stop right here.' I was convinced there were more bodies. Gacy later drew a diagram on a piece of paper and showed that there were many, many bodies.'' In the crawl space alone, 29 bodies were found. Four more were dumped in nearby rivers. Ten years ago this week, Gacy _ successful building contractor, decorated Jaycee, amateur clown, Democratic activist _ became king of the mass murderers apprehended in this country. Gacy told police he strangled all but one of his 33 male victims by wrapping rope around their necks and twisting it with a stick. He had sex with some of them before killing them. The murders were committed over a three-year period beginning in 1975. In 1980, he was convicted of 33 murders _ more than anyone before or since. Gacy, 46, received death sentences for 12 of the killings and life in prison for each of the remaining 21. In September, the Illinois Supreme Court upheld the convictions and the sentences. Execution is scheduled for Jan. 11, but is almost certain to be delayed by appeals. Illinois' last execution was in 1962. Today, Gacy sits in a 46-square-foot cell on death row at Menard Correctional Center in Chester, a small town in southern Illinois. He is allowed to exercise an hour a day and to spend another 60 minutes in the prison law library. ``He's not a disciplinary problem,'' says Nic Howell, spokesman for the state Department of Corrections. ``He was painting landscapes the last time I saw him.'' Gacy's name surfaced briefly in this year's presidential campaign when a pamphlet distributed by Illinois Republicans claimed that Gacy would have been eligible for weekend passes had he committed his crimes in Massachusetts under Gov. Michael Dukakis' administration. Dukakis labeled the pamphlet ``garbage,'' and Gacy later wrote to state GOP officials complaining about the ``sleazy'' tactic. At Gacy's request, corrections officials no longer relay oral requests for interviews. The uneasy memories of Gacy and the crimes that stunned the world remain close to the surface. ``What I especially remember was the ghoulishness of people on the outside of the house,'' said Stein, who is still Cook County medical examiner and owns two Gacy paintings. ``Just like counting down the seconds in a basketball game, they were counting up the bodies that were pulled from the ground.'' Gacy, a Chicago native, lived in Springfield and Iowa before returning in the early 1970s to start his own business, specializing in remodeling work at retail stores. He often hired teen-age boys. Joseph Kozenczak, chief of detectives in Des Plaines who is now police chief, had been looking for Robert Piest, a 15-year-old who disappeared after telling his mother he was going to see Gacy about a summer job. A few days later, the detective got a search warrant for Gacy's home. ``We never suspected we were in the middle of mass murders _ we were looking for one kid,'' Kozenczak said. Eight of the bodies were so badly decomposed they were never identified. At a funeral where authorities hoped they might get clues to the identities by watching the mourners, this was the final prayer offered for them: ``Lord, you alone know the names of these brothers, names you have written on the palm of your hand. We praise and thank you for the gift of life you gave them. We are sorry for the violence which took away their mortal lives.''
AP880829-0009 	X	Shanghai residents wanting a new aluminum pot will have to surrender an old one under regulations to curb profiteering and panic buying, the official China Daily said today. The price of aluminum in China has more than doubled since January. Only newly married couples who produce their marriage certificates will be exempt from the old-for-new rationing system, the newspaper said, and those couples will be limited to two sauce pans and one tea pot. It said the rationing would counter the rising price of aluminum caused by a shortage of supplies and ``the meddling of profiteers.'' Aluminum is selling for the equivalent of $4,324 per ton, compared to $1,892 in January. The China Daily said Shanghai speculators have been illegally buying price-controlled aluminum cookware and then selling the utensils outside the city for large profits.
AP900531-0128 	X	Here is a look at events Thursday in the Soviet Union:
AP880528-0060 	X	Syrian troops today entered Hezbollah's south Beirut stronghold but a source said they would not occupy the pro-Iranian militia's main barracks, where most of the 18 foreign hostages are believed held. Meanwhile, civilians, who had fled their homes in the southern slums began trickling back to piece together their shattered lives. The first Syrian soldiers moved into the 16 square miles of tin-roofed huts and cement-block apartments on Friday, putting an end to a three-week battle between Hezbollah and the mainstream Shiite Moslem militia Amal. Sources at the Syrian command said the troops started moving at midday. One source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the plan does not cover Hezbollah's main barracks in Hay Madi, where most of the foreign hostages are believed held by Shiite extremists under Hezbollah's wing. The source said the barracks is considered part of the demarcation line with Christian east Beirut _ the only area of south Beirut where Syria will allow either militia to maintain gunmen. A Lebanese security source, speaking privately, said the Syrian deployment in Hay Madi will ``tighten the grip on Hezbollah. It means the kidnappers will not be able to move the hostages from one place to another.'' The hostages include nine Americans, three Britons, a West German, an Italian, an Irishman, an Indian and two unidentified men. The two-phase Syrian deployment, implementing a cease-fire agreed to by Syrian and Iran, ended fighting in the slums narrow alleys that police say left 300 people dead and 1,000 wounded since it began May 6. Abdul Hadi Hamadi, Hezbollah's security chief and a reputed kidnapper, escorted Syrian officers into south Beirut Friday. His public appearance stole the spotlight from the Syrian move. Hamadi's brothers, Mohammed Ali and Abbas, are held in West Germany on terrorist charges. Mohammed Ali is accused of the 1985 TWA hijacking in which a U.S. Navy diver was killed and 39 Americans were held hostage for 17 days. Abdul Hadi, who represents Hezbollah on a four-party committee set up Friday to supervise the truce, is believed to have mastermined the January 1987 abduction of two West Germans to swap them for his jailed brothers. One of the Germans, Alfred Schmidt, was released last September. The other, Rudolf Cordes, 53, is one of the 18 foreign hostages. A 900-strong force of Syrian infantry men set up five checkpoints Friday along a disengagement line between the Shiyah neighborhood, held by Amal, and the Hezbollah-controlled Ghobeiri district. The demarcation line stretched through two miles of gutted shops, smoldering cars and bullet-scarred cement block shanties. Broken power cables dangled the streets, littered with glass shards and used cartridges. The Syrians also erected checkpoints at key road junctions in two Hezbollah-controlled neighborhoods. Civilians today started returning to the Syrian-policed districts of south Beirut to check their property. ``My life's earnings have gone,'' said Azzam Sadeq as he inspected his gutted apartment that overlooks Hezbollah's positions across the street. A helmeted Syrian soldier, armed with a Soviet-designed AK-47 assault rifle, guarded the entrance to the six-story apartment building. The soldier, who refused to be named, only allowed residents into the building to ``prevent looting.'' ``All the doors to the apartments are open. They were either shot open by gunmen or opened by the pressure of exploding shells,'' the soldier said. Sadeq said fire ``destroyed'' everything in his third floor apartment. ``I don't have furniture anymore. My (two) daughters' books and clothes were also burned. We don't have enough money to repair the damage and buy new furniture and clothes,'' he said, his eyes filling with tears. Sadeq said he, his wife and two daughters, fled the apartment shortly after the fighting broke out. Hezbollah took more than 90 percent of the slums in the fighting. ``May God's wrath burn the gunmen, all the gunmen,'' shouted a gray-haired, middle-aged man as he inspectged his demolished one-story house. ``They fought in my house. Both Amal and Hezbollah took turns occupying my house.'' A young man, an apparent Hezbollah member, told him the party's spiritual guide Sheik Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah ``will compensate for your losses.'' ``Neither Fadlallah nor Allah can compensate,'' the man shouted back. ``May you all roast in Hell.'' Syria has 25,000 soldiers in eastern and northern Lebanon and about 7,500 patrolling Moslem west Beirut. President Hafez Assad of Syria has become Lebanon's main power broker during 13 years of civil war, but Iran has used Hezbollah to challenge Syrian influence among the 1.2 million Shiites, the largest sect in Lebanon.
AP880316-0043 	X	Susan Butcher, bundled against biting winds and subzero temperatures, widened her lead and seemed assured of an unprecedented third straight victory in the 1,150-mile Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race. Butcher, who left this checkpoint just as her closest competitor arrived Tuesday, was expected to cross the finish line in Nome today. If Butcher wins, it will be the fourth consecutive year that a woman has won the 16-year-old race. Libby Riddles of Teller won in 1985, and Butcher won in 1986 and 1987, setting a course record each year. Butcher left Elim, 123 miles from Nome, at 5:11 p.m. Tuesday, after stopping in the Eskimo village for two hours to feed and rest her dog team. Martin Buser of Big Lake arrived two minutes before she left. Butcher, a resident of Manley, took the lead early Tuesday and has not yielded it. She left Elim with 10 of the 17 dogs she started with March 5 in Anchorage; the others were dropped at checkpoints along the trail. Buser was traveling with 12 of his original 20 dogs still in harness. Subzero temperatures and biting winds continued to hinder the leaders, and weather forecasters said the wind chill factor could sink to minus 70 degrees along the trail's final miles. In each of her two previous victories, Butcher proved the strength and endurance of her team in the final, windswept miles along the barren Bering Sea coast. Her elapsed time last year was 11 days, 2 hours. Her closest rival last year was four-time Iditarod champion Rick Swenson of Two Rivers, who ran neck-and-neck with Butcher until his dogs refused to continue just 22 miles from the finish. This year, Swenson was about six hours behind Butcher at last report, leaving Koyuk at 2 p.m. Tuesday in third place. Running in fourth was Joe Garnie of Teller. Herbie Nayokpuk of Shishmaref was fifth. Seventy-year-old Joe Redington of Knik, who took an early lead and held it for more than 400 miles, was sixth. Redington, known as the ``Father of the Iditarod'' for organizing the first race in 1973, has run all but two races and placed as high as fifth, but has yet to win. The first musher to Nome collects $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers split the rest. Five of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out.
AP901205-0199 	X	Elizabeth Taylor ignored her ex-boyfriend in court Wednesday as their lawyers began selecting a jury to decide a multimillion-dollar dispute over the rights to her ``Passion'' perfume. Miss Taylor walked across the courtroom surrounded by her lawyers and made no acknowledgement of former beau Henry Wynberg, seated at the opposite end of a table. A panel of 50 prospective jurors sat with their eyes riveted on the actress, dressed in purple, as the judge explained what the trial was all about. Miss Taylor won permission earlier in the day to tell jurors about Wynberg's criminal record after her lawyers said it would explain her decision to keep him out of her perfume business. Lawyers for Henry Wynberg sought to prevent jurors from hearing that Wynberg - who courted Miss Taylor between her two marriages to Richard Burton - once pleaded guilty to statutory rape, providing drugs to underage high school girls in return for sex and taking pornographic photos of young girls. They called the evidence ``irrelevant, inflammatory and prejudicial.'' But Miss Taylor's lawyers argued that those issues were crucial to proving that she was justified in breaking off her business relationship with Wynberg ``because any reputable cosmetics company would refuse to deal with Wynberg.'' Superior Court Judge Coleman Swart declined to bar the evidence. Wynberg claims he conceived the actress' line of ``Passion'' perfume, and he's seeking a hefty share of the profits. He says he created the fragrance under the Elizabeth Taylor Cosmetics Inc. banner. At stake: about $70 million a year in profits. Litigation has produced volumes of depositions and affidavits about Wynberg's claim that he had a contract with Miss Taylor for exclusive rights to her name and likeness for promotion and sale of cosmetics. Wynberg sued in 1986 for 72 percent of ``Passion'' profits. Court documents show Wynberg's two-year romance with the violet-eyed actress ended in August 1975, when Miss Taylor said, ``I'm going back to Richard, Henry. I'll see you later.'' Burton and Miss Taylor remarried in Africa, and Wynberg returned to California. Court records show that a short time later, Miss Taylor and Wynberg signed the cosmetics agreement in Switzerland, with Burton as a witness. Wynberg said he spent years consulting with chemists and manufacturers, smelling perfumes and looking for the perfect bottle. ``I wanted sparkling little lights like stars in there, and I wanted it to look like money, feel like money,'' Wynberg said. According to Wynberg, Hen he presented the actress with the heart-shaped bottle and fragrance in November 1983, Miss Taylor said: ``Let's let bygones be bygones, Henry. Let's split 50-50 on the perfume deal.'' In a deposition, Miss Taylor denies Wynberg's assertion. ``I didn't want to do any business with him,'' she said. Miss Taylor contends that Wynberg's failure to follow through on the project violated the contract and made it invalid. In 1986 she signed with the Chesebrough-Ponds Inc. cosmetics company to market ``Passion'' using her name and likeness. It went on to be a big seller.
AP880712-0125 	X	In an election-year bow to an agency that serves one-third of all Americans, the Senate voted Tuesday to give the Veterans Administration a seat in the president's Cabinet. The bill was passed by an 84-11 vote. The House approved similar legislation last November, a week after the idea was advanced by President Reagan. Negotiators from the the Senate and House will work out minor differences between the two bills. The Department of Veterans' Affairs would become the 14th in the Cabinet and the fifth addition since 1960. The change would take effect Jan. 1, 1989. Sponsors said veterans and their dependents deserve to be heard in the highest councils of government. Opponents called the bill another example of congressional pandering to special interests. ``In recent years the VA has frequently been relegated to a relatively insignificant role within the executive branch, with the administrator having little or no access to the president or other top officials in the White House,'' said Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., chairman of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. Sen. Strom Thurmond, R-S.C., who has been promoting a veterans' department since 1975, said his support is not aimed at getting more money for veterans. ``Given the nature and scope of the VA, it is appropriate that we make it an executive department ... (to) ensure that these federal dollars are more effectively administered.'' Sen. Alan Simpson, R-Wyo., a former Veterans Committee chairman, opposed creation of the Cabinet seat. He bitterly criticized some veterans' service organizations for supporting the bill while they fought another measure, passed Monday by the Senate, that would allow courts to overturn some VA decisions on veterans' benefits. ``If anybody believes veterans needed a stronger voice ... than they already have, then I've missed something in the nine years I've been year,'' Simpson said. Sen. Gordon Humphrey, R-N.H., called the bill ``absurd... silly... goofy... illogical ... irresponsible. This is rubbish. This is unprincipled (prostitution) after special-interest groups.'' According to the Veterans' Affairs Committee, VA serves 27 million veterans and 49 million dependents or survivors with a budget of $30 billion, making it the largest independent federal agency. It will dispense $14 billion in income maintenance and $626 million for education and rehabilitation assistance this year. The agency and its 240,000 employees administered 90,000 patient beds in 534 health facilities and will see 20 million outpatients this year. It runs 109 national cemeteries and will bury 300,000 veterans this year. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that converting the VA into a Cabinet department would cost $33 million over five years. The biggest part of the cost would go for changing signs on VA buildings. The bill would reorganize VA operations and allow the secretary of veterans' affairs to name up to four assistant secretaries and 15 deputy assistants. The legislation requires that the top operating officers _ the chief medical director and chief benefits director _ be selected on the basic of expertise and without regard to politics. Voting against elevating VA to the Cabinet were Sens. William Armstrong, R-Colo.; Dan Evans, R-Wash.; Jake Garn, R-Utah; Humphrey; Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan.; James McClure, R-Idaho; William Proxmire, D-Wis.; Dan Quayle, R-Ind.; Warren Rudman, R-N.H.; Simpson, and Steven Symms, R-Idaho. Not voting were Sens. Joseph Biden, D-Del.; Orrin Hatch, R-Utah; Jesse Helms, R-N.C.; Paul Trible, R-Va., and John Warner, R-Va.
AP900228-0183 	X	Lawyers for Juan Ponce Enrile asked the Supreme Court on Wednesday to free the opposition senator, who was arrested on charges of backing December's failed coup. Vice President Salvador Laurel described the arrest of the former defense minister as an attempt to silence the opposition. Laurel broke with President Corazon Aquino in 1987 and later joined Enrile in forming the opposition Nacionalista Party. ``It could only be the beginning,'' Laurel told reporters. ``It is not the end. We are bracing for that. We are prepared for the worst. ... I think Mrs. Aquino is exacerbating the fragmentation and disunity of the nation.'' Enrile, who played a key role in bringing Mrs. Aquino to power in a 1986 uprising, was arrested Tuesday, held overnight at the National Bureau of Investigation, and transferred early Wednesday to police headquarters in suburban Quezon City. He faces charges of ``rebellion with murder.'' Military dissidents claimed the arrest of one of the administration's sharpest critics was a prelude to martial law. In a petition filed Wednesday, Enrile's law partner, Renato Cayetano, claimed the arrest was illegal and violated the senator's rights. The petition asked that Enrile be freed. Court officials said no hearing had been scheduled. Also Wednesday, three senators filed a proposal asking judicial authorities to place Enrile under the custody of the Senate's sergeant-at-arms to allow the lone opposition senator to attend sessions. Enrile, who was among seven people indicted Tuesday, denied any role in the Dec. 1-9 coup attempt that left at least 113 people dead and wounded more than 600. Indicted with 66-year-old Enrile, were dismissed Lt. Col. Gregorio ``Gringo'' Honasan; Rodolfo Aguinaldo, suspended governor of Cagayan province; ret. Brig. Gen. Felix Brawner; retired Lt. Col. Billy Bibit; and businessman Rebecco Panlilio and his wife, Erlinda. In the northern province of Cagayan, a local government official said Aguinaldo, a former army lieutenant colonel, was reported to have gone in hiding after learning late Tuesday that an arrest warrant would be served on him the next day. Enrile is the most prominent figure charged in any of the six coup attempts since Mrs. Aquino was swept to power in February 1986 by the military-popular uprising that drove the late President Ferdinand E. Marcos into exile. Troops went on alert in the Manila area Tuesday to prevent possible reprisals after the arrest, according to presidential spokesman Tomas Gomez. On Wednesday, police defused a homemade bomb outside a shopping center in Manila's financial district of Makati. Police said they did not know who placed the bomb. Enrile was defense minister under Marcos but turned against him and led the military mutiny that prompted the uprising. He kept the post under Mrs. Aquino, but he was fired in November 1986 after a coup attempt by his followers. A spokesman for soldiers involved in the December coup said the nation ``should brace itself for the imminent declaration of martial law.'' However, in a radio interview Wednesday, Gomez said the charges were justified because Enrile led ``the numerous attempts at a coup d'etat to destroy this government of ours.'' Enrile was arrested after three witnesses claimed they saw Honasan and about 100 rebels at Enrile's home on the first day of the failed coup. The senator claims not to have seen Honasan, his former protege, since 1987.
AP880815-0045 	X	Striking submarine builders at Electric Boat could torpedo their futures if they don't acknowledge the increasing competitive marketplace and tightening military budget, analysts say. Despite a low unemployment rate and shortage of skilled workers, conditions that should favor the union, defense industry analysts say Electric Boat holds the upper hand in the 6-week-old strike by the 10,000-member Metal Trades Council. The union struck over Electric Boat's demand that employees accept lump-sum bonuses instead of wage increases in a three-year contract. The company says it needs to bring down labor costs to become more competitive with its Virginia rival, Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Co. The union said the offer doesn't take into account Connecticut's higher cost of living. In only the second negotiating session since the strike began, the company Thursday offered bonuses of 5 percent and 4 percent in the first two years and a 3 percent wage increase in the third year, in addition to a $600 bonus. The union, which said the offer was not even worth putting to a vote, has asked for wage increases of 5 percent the first year and 4 percent the final two years of the contract. The company said that as of Friday, 668 workers had crossed picket lines. During a five-month strike in 1975, only 150 workers were reported to have done so. Electric Boat's efforts to hire replacement workers, which have included placing full-page ads in newspapers, have produced meager results. Only 20 people have signed up, about the number of workers the sub builder loses each week through attrition. Electric Boat could hurt itself more by acceding to the union's demands and settling quickly than by holding out, despite the low jobless rate and shortage of skilled workers, analysts say. Electric Boat, a division of General Dynamics, has lost six attack submarine contracts in the last two years to Newport News. Electric Boat was awarded only one of three this year; Newport News had bid on only two. In all, Electric Boat has contracts for seven Trident subs and nine attack subs. The company is the only builder of the Trident. First-class mechanics, a job classification covering more than 85 percent of Electric Boat's sub builders, earn $12.02 an hour. The same workers at Newport News earn $1.24 less an hour in wages and benefits, according to Electric Boat. ``The Navy is going to the lowest bidder, and that has predominantly been Newport News. I don't know what the union expects the Navy to do,'' said Paul Nisbet, analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities. While Electric Boat is making money on the production of Trident submarines, it has not been making money on attack subs for some time, which is ``a further reason for them to hold out longer,'' Nisbet said. ``I don't think the union has much bargaining strength,'' said Gary Reich, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. Also working in the company's favor is the tightening military budget, said Phil Friedman of Drexel Burnham Lambert. Electric Boat has reassigned about 1,800 salaried workers to jobs performed by strikers. It has also shifted work to yards in Quonset Point, R.I., where all sub construction begins, and in Charleston, S.C. While certain vendors and small groceries around the shipyard here have suffered, the heavy tourist trade has kept business brisk elsewhere, said Audrey Golub, head of the regional Chamber of Commerce. ``No one has said to me yet, `God, the strike is really hurting.' If the strike continues into the fall and winter then we would begin to be able to see an impact,'' she said.
AP900117-0009 	X	The publication of Claude Monet's cookery notebooks reveals the father of Impressionism as a tyrannical gourmet who could fly into a rage over a sauce. ``Monet's Cookery Notebooks,'' by Claire Joyes and published recently by Editions du Chene, is a delightful look at the private life of the man who immortalized haystacks in the haze and water lilies floating under a quaint Japanese footbridge. The book is to be published in the United States in the spring by Prentice Hall. A must for art buffs and food lovers alike, Monet's cookbook _ with recipes tested and adapted by award-winning chef Joel Robuchon _ is an authentic record taken from family notes. Like a social and cultural chronicle of the half century Monet spent at his Normandy country home in Giverny from 1883 to 1926, the notebooks detail Monet's likes and dislikes, what he served to his friends and what his second wife Alice had prepared for their eight children (two were his, six were hers) on ordinary days and holidays. It even tells how tables were set for picnics. Joyes, an art historian, found the handwritten notebooks tucked among letters, photographs and other Monet archives inherited by her husband, Jean-Marie Toulgouat, a great-grandson of Alice Hoschede Monet. ``Claire was the storyteller, Jean-Marie had the memory,'' said Benedicte Servignat, Joyes' editor at Chene. ``He never knew Monet, but he spent all his childhood vacations at the Giverny farmhouse and remembered the cook Marguerite and, of course, Monet's step-daughter Blanche, who carried on all the culinary traditions after Monet's death.'' Toulgouat, an artist, and Joyes live in the village of Giverny, near Vernon, but have nothing to do with Monet's renovated farmhouse, now open to the public as a museum. Monet was a solid, middle-class bon vivant, but his daily routine was strictly regimented and it revolved totally around painting. He rose before dawn to capture the variations of early morning light, took a cold shower and breakfasted English-style _ on eggs and bacon, grilled tripe sausages and cheese, toast and orange marmelade. He would spend the morning working on his studio-boat with Blanche, also an artist. Back by 11 a.m., they were ravenous and impatient to sit down to lunch. Joyes decribed Monet as ``a demon for punctuality. A first, then a second stroke of the gong would assemble the scattered family in the dining room for lunch, which was served at 11:30 precisely. Monet would cough irritably on the very half second, causing panic in the kitchen,'' she wrote. Lunch invariably was a five-course extravaganza, which included a fish course, meat dish, salad, cheese, a different homebaked dessert every day and cakes at 4 p.m. _ all prepared by the family cook Marguerite. Monet never lingered over his food. Service had to be quick so he could get back to work. He even ordered servants never to pass dishes around twice when his American stepson-in-law Theodore Butler was lunching with them since Butler's slow eating habits drove Monet mad. Lunch was a social affair, often with guests. Tea was served under the lime trees, always at 4:00. Friends were never invited for dinner because Monet was always in bed by 9:30. The uninvited, even close friends, were politely turned away. Though Alice ran the house, she consulted Monet in planning menus, which revolved around the fruit and vegetables in season and which catered to the special tastes of a roster of illustrious guests like Renoir, Cezanne and Premier Georges Clemenceau, who loved the waterlilies. Monet and his family arrived in Giverny in May in 1883. Despite their precarious financial situation, they immediately set about renovating the kitchen and landscaping the wild gardens which sloped gently down to wide meadows and a small pond. Monet was obssessed with order in his flower gardens, but he was fanatical about the picking schedule of his fruit and vegetables grown and nurtured in a 2{-acre walled kitchen garden on the other side of the town. Constantly looking to expand and improve an impressive array of herbs and vegetables, he would spend evenings leafing through scholarly publications to find new seeds to test in the rich and often wet Norman soil. Joyes described Monet as equally fanatical about the poultry he was served, spending an ``inordinate amount of time choosing ducks and hens to be used for breeding stock.'' He just didn't trust local farmers.
AP880620-0186 	X	Dennis Day, the Irish tenor of radio and television fame, was sent home Monday from St. John's Hospital and Health Center, although he remains in critical condition, a hospital spokesman said. ``According to his physician, he was discharged because his care can be continued in a home setting,'' said Armen Markarian, a hospital spokesman. ``He's surrounded by his family there, and he'll be more comfortable in a home setting.'' Day was admitted to Saint John's on June 5, and continues to suffer from a recurrence of pressure on the brain, publicist Kitty Davis said. The 71-year-old singer was diagnosed last summer as suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressively degenerative nerve disorder also known as Lou Gehrig's disease. On March 9, Day suffered a head injury in a fall at his Bel Air home, and underwent emergency treatment to relieve the pressure caused by bleeding in the brain. He remained in the hospital until April 12, Markarian said. Day appeared regularly with comedian Jack Benny on radio and television as well as in films. Born Eugene Denis McNulty in New York, he assumed the name Dennis Day when he joined Benny's radio show as a singer in 1939 and quickly grew into a comic foil for the host.
AP900423-0214 	X	The hotel and motel industry is a growing industry in need of help. ``There are simply not enough people to meet the requirements of a constantly expanding industry,'' says Roger Saunders, president of the American Hotel and Motel Association. ``Young people will find abundant openings as never before, in administration, computer technology, food and beverage, sales, room management, housekeeping, accounting _ you name it,'' says Saunders, who is also chairman and chief executive officer of the Saunders Hotels Co., Boston. Saunders says the travel business is now the nation's second biggest employer and ``in just 10 years, by the turn of the century, travel will be the nation's No. 1 employer, with one out of every seven people in the work force.'' He advises young people considering a career to look into hotel schools to prepare for the business. But it is not a career only for young people, he says. ``There are excellent income potentials for students and mothers of young children, or women whose children are grown. The same is true for senior citizens who want to work _ whether 50, 60 or over 70. They are reliable, dependable workers and serve as role models for young people. ``The same is true for the handicapped who can and want to work.''
AP900818-0033 	X	Typhoon Yancy skimmed the northern tip of the Philippines' main Luzon island today with wind gusts of up to 91 miles per hour and was approaching southern Taiwan, the Manila weather bureau said. In a weather bulletin issued at noon (midnight EDT Friday), Yancy was centered 175 miles northeast of Basco City, the capital of Batanes province, an island group about 410 miles north of Manila. No casualties or major damage have been reported. Forecasters said Yancy gained strength overnight with sustained winds of 81 mph and gusts of 91 mph. Yancy also slowed down and was moving west-northwest at 7 mph, forecasters said. Senior weather forecaster Daniel Dimagiba said that if Yancy maintains its present course, the sixth major weather disturbance to strike the country this year will move out of Philippine territory by Sunday morning and hit southern Taiwan. Dimagiba said Yancy has a radius of 375 miles, which would mean its effect could be felt as far as the central Philippines. Provinces in the entire Luzon island, including Manila, have been placed on storm alert because of this, he added. Sea travel in the typhoon's path was ``extremely dangerous'' and the weather bureau had advised ships and smaller seacraft to stay in port. Philippine Airlines canceled eight flights from Manila to the affected areas. About 20 typhoons and storms hit the Philippines yearly.
AP900330-0061 	X	South Africa released seven black nationalists from prison today, including the nephew of African National Congress leader Walter Sisulu. The releases raised to 42 the number of political prisoners freed from Robben Island prison since the end of an 11-day hunger strike there in early March. The strike ended after a meeting between lawyers of the 346 hunger strikers and government officials. The details of their agreement have never been made public, but the pace of releases has increased since the meeting. The ANC, the leading black anti-apartheid group, has demanded the release of all prisoners convicted of politically motivated crimes as a condition for its participation in formal negotiations on a new constitution. The prisoners freed today included five members of the ANC and two members of the Black Consciousness Movement. Among the prisoners released was Jomguzi Sisulu, 31, who was sentenced in May 1986 to five years for treason. The father of two small children said he was shocked when authorities told him Thursday he would be freed the next day. ``I couldn't believe it, it was so unexpected,'' he said. Sisulu's uncle, Walter, was freed from the same prison in October after serving 25 years of a life term for plotting sabotage to end white rule. President F.W. de Klerk will hold talks April 11 with top ANC leaders, including Nelson Mandela, to work out a framework for constitutional talks.
AP880704-0159 	X	Nearly a year after he began his firsthand study of the capitalist system, Soviet economist Mikhail Popov says he's ready to put his knowledge to work as part of the sweeping reform in his homeland. ``I will use the ideas of American scholars,'' said Popov, a regional economist for the Siberian Branch of the Soviet Union's Academy of Sciences. ``Many of them are new and up-to-date and not available in the Soviet Union.'' Popov has studied such capitalist cornerstones as rents, interest rates and prices since his arrival last September at West Virginia University's Regional Research Institute under an international exchange program. ``When I look at things in the United States, I usually think `How can I use them to restructure our economy?''' Popov said. ``I also look at the history. What worked and what didn't?'' During an interview on the eve of his scheduled Fourth of July departure, the 35-year-old expert on Soviet industrial production said he was anxious to share his experience with colleagues who are intimately involved in ``perestroika'' _ Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's effort to overhaul the Soviet system. Popov said his study of the decline of the steel industry in Pittsbugh and of coal mining in Appalachia could help ease the transition of the Kuzbass region of Siberia, where much of the country's heavy industry once was centered. ``We have similar problems in some areas and wanted to look at the tremendous changes that have occurred in Pittsburgh, for example, and study the optimal way to shift from basic industries to high-tech,'' Popov said. Gorbachev began pressing for the restructuring of Soviet society shortly after taking office three years ago. Last week, during a national meeting of the Communist Party, he called for democratization, economic reform and changes in the Soviet political system that he said would make perestroika ``irreversible.'' ``Perestroika really is an expression of our society,'' Popov said. ``It just didn't happen with a change of leadership. It was inevitable, a natural evolution of the socialist system. ``We couldn't have avoided it,'' he concluded. Some commentators in the U.S. have said Gorbachev's attempts to introduce market mechanisms into the Soviet system prove that communism is doomed. Others in the Soviet Union say Gorbachev has gone too far too quickly. Popov, an unabashed Gorbachev supporter, said he disagreed on both counts. ``I'm not afraid that we will lose the main ideas of socialism,'' said Popov. ``If someone is willing to produce much more than the other guy and works harder, he deserves to be rewarded. ``That doesn't threaten socialism at all.'' During his stay, Popov also has presented several papers on the Soviet economy, visited Penn State University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technolgy and given dozens of lectures.
AP880825-0074 	X	With the symbolic passing of a small cross made of grape vines, the Rev. Jesse Jackson ended a three-day fast and vowed to wage a continuing boycott against California table grapes. Jackson, who received the cross from Cesar Chavez as the president of the United Farm Workers Union ended a 36-day water-only fast, ended his fast Wednesday and passed the cross to the Rev. Joseph Lowery, president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. Lowery, of Atlanta, said he will fast until Saturday, when he will hand the cross to actors Martin Sheen and Robert Blake, who will fast. ``I have fasted with Cesar Chavez,'' Jackson said. ``I have shared the pain. I want to be a better person. I want to be an even more committed person to the workers and the abandoned families who harvest the food we eat.'' Wednesday's ceremony occurred outside a Jewel Co. food store, but Jackson and other demonstrators stressed they were not calling for a boycott of the supermarket chain _ only a boycott of the grapes, which the UFW maintains are treated with pesticides dangerous to farm workers. The union contends pesticides contribute to cancer, miscarriages and birth defects among those who pick grapes. California table grape growers acknowledge that four pesticides are used, but say the same chemicals are sprayed on other vegetables and fruits and pose no health risk. A spokesman for California table grape growers said Chavez is targeting the industry because the union does not have any contracts with growers. ``That's the bottom line,'' spokesman Adam Ortega said from Los Angeles. ``They're accusing stores of selling poisoned grapes. That's not true. They're scare tactics.''
AP900823-0145 	X	The leaders of this all-male monastic republic declared a state of emergency Thursday as a 10-day-old forest fire raged out of control. The fire had burned over 2,250 acres of chestnut trees and thick brush by Thursday night, according to fire brigade officials. At one point it threatened three of the 20 Eastern Orthodox monasteries on the forested peninsula that reaches into the Aegean Sea. Premier Constantine Mitsotakis ordered the Defense Ministry to dispatch more troops to help combat the fire. Under the state of emergency, the military will coordinate firefighting efforts. Authorities said 1,300 soldiers were battling the fire with the community's 1,400 monks, hundreds of civilian volunteers from neighboring regions and the crew of 10 fire engines. Strong winds kept firefighting planes from the peninsula Thursday. Two warships were anchored nearby in stormy seas, ready to evacuate monks and priceless treasures from the monasteries if needed. The fire brigade said it was difficult for land firefighting forces because of the lack of roads and firebreaks on the densely wooded, 30-square-mile peninsula. Cause of the fire was unknown. The Mount Athos religious comunity was founded in 963. It enjoyed administrative independence under the Byzantine and Ottoman empires and was made a theocratic republic under Greek suzerainty in 1927. It is governed by a civil administrator and a council of monks. Women and female animals are barred.
AP900323-0118 	X	Chairman Lee Iacocca went to school, He wanted to groove on that golden rule. Got to rapping with the gang And the Rich Academy guys gave him some slang: ``He left Ford Motor Company with a plan on the double. Became Chrysler's CEO, found out they were in trouble. He designed a new automobile, they called the `K.' His new car and charming wit surely saved the day.'' Student Chris Longino got in the entrepreneurial way: ``I'm going to keep this (song). I might make some money off this one day.'' Translated: The Chrysler Corp. chairman visited the 9-year-old alternative school on Thursday. During his visit, Longino and fellow student Aaron Bolton performed their ``Iacocca Rap.''
AP900828-0087 	X	Pro-democracy activists accused the ruling party Tuesday of harassment after police refused to give them permission to hold a mass rally this weekend. Vernon Mwaanga, a spokesman for pro-democracy campaigners, charged that ruling party officials have intimidated opposition supporters. He said ``thugs and hooligans'' tore down posters announcing upcoming rallies. Mwaanga described the postponement of Saturday's rally as an attempt to frustrate the opposition campaign for a multiparty democracy in this one-party state. The rally was rescheduled Sept. 8. Mwaanga said heads of the Frontline African states bordering South Africa are to meet in Lusaka on Saturday and police said they did not have the manpower to supervise both events simultaneously. ``It has been a consistent feature of our campaign that the authorities have frustrated our efforts to hold meetings,'' Mwaanga said. In a separate press statement Tuesday, Arthur Wina, chairman of the National Interim Committee for Multiparty Democracy, said he was disappointed that the government ``continued to operate on the basis of giving priority to foreign and international images rather than domestic affairs and national welfare.'' Earlier Tuesday, a longtime political associate of President Kenneth Kaunda said he would aggressively campaign to end one-party rule. Legislator Humphrey Mulemba, a former ruling party secretary-general, told reporters in Lusaka the scrapping of the one-party system was vital for the future well-being of Zambia, one of Africa's poorest nations. ``It is time we had political structural changes by removing one-party and introduce multiparty politics in Zambia,'' he said. As secretary-general of the ruling party for four years, Mulemba was No. 2 in the party hierarchy after Kaunda. He is the second ruling party legislator to openly attack one-party rule. ``With immediate effect I am going public and I am appealing to all Zambians for support,'' he said. Kaunda imposed a one-party system in 1973, when his ruling United National Independence Party became the only legal political organization in Zambia. Mulemba blamed one-party rule for ``inertia, corruption and lack of competition.'' On Monday, Frederick Chiluba, head of the powerful Zambia Congress of Trade Unions made his strongest attack yet against the ruling party. Addressing pro-democracy supporters, Chiluba accused Kaunda of being a dictator and criticized the ruling party for being out of touch with the people. A referendum on the political future of Zambia is scheduled Aug. 13, 1991.
AP900306-0038 	X	College students prefer periodic tests or term papers to big final exams and learn more from teachers who give them substantial, immediate feedback, a Harvard University study found. For example, a ``one-minute, low-tech, no-cost'' technique is to ask students at the end of each class for a quick, one-paragraph summary of what they learned, said Richard J. Light, author of the three-year study issued Monday. The study concludes that modest shifts in academic policies can create major improvements in college classrooms. Light, a professor at Harvard's Graduate School of Education and Kennedy School of Government, based the study on in-depth interviews with 360 Harvard undergraduates _ conducted by their fellow students _ and seminars that included faculty and administrators from Harvard and about 20 other institutions. Among the conclusions of ``Explorations with Students and Faculty about Teaching, Learning and Student Life'': _Students said they learned the most in classes with periodic tests, oral presentations and papers that let them know how they were doing ``mid-course,'' rather than a big exam at the end of the course. In particular, students indicated they preferred opportunities to rewrite term papers after ``red-penciling'' by faculty. ``Students said they learned more from doing the fourth draft than by doing the first draft,'' Light said. _Students found small study groups of up to six people meeting outside the classroom particularly effective. Light said teachers should encourage formation of such groups. _Students in outside activities such as athletics or clubs, jobs or volunteer work for up to 35 hours a week ``are by far the happiest students,'' Light said. He said teachers should urge students to ``get involved.'' While only Harvard students were involved in the study, Light said the in-depth questionnaires and the information from the seminars made the results applicable to other institutions, including high school and graduate school. Light said he was surprised by some of the differences found between male and female students. For example, although there is no substantial difference between the grades of male and female students, 39 percent of the females said they were not happy with their academic performance, compared with 19 percent of men, he said. Also, although both groups indicated that study groups were effective, males were more likely to join one or form one, Light said. Twelve undergraduate and graduate students were trained by Light and other colleagues before they conducted interviews with the 360 randomly selected Harvard students. They used a 23-page questionnaire that included many open-ended questions. Follow-up interviews were done five to six months later. R. Eugene Rice, senior fellow at the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, said the Harvard study ``confirms a lot that we know about learning, in fact, just about human work in general _ the importance of feedback, its regulation and its timing.'' Rice said he hoped that faculty heeds the study's recommendations, but he noted that universities must then ``reward faculty for putting their time into this kind of teaching which take away time for work on research.''
AP880303-0207 	X	Political television ads grew more negative as well as more plentiful Thursday with Sen. Albert Gore Jr. and Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis going on the attack for the first time less than a week before Super Tuesday. Gore, Dukakis and Vice President George Bush all sent out critical ads in many of the 20 states holding primaries and caucuses next week. Gore launched the first TV attack of his campaign, a pointed 60-second excerpt from the Feb. 18 Democratic debate in Dallas. Within those 60 seconds, Gore accuses Gephardt of voting against minimum wage increases, against creating the Department of Education, for tuition tax credits and for Reagonomics _ and reversing his positions on all four issues. ``The next president of the United States has to be someone the American people can believe will stay with his convictions. ... You've got to be willing to stand your ground and be consistent,'' Gore says. A Gephardt spokeswoman said there would be no direct response to the Gore ad. Gephardt has been running commercials criticizing both Gore and Dukakis for several days in Super Tuesday states. Dukakis began responding Wednesday night with an ad assaulting Gephardt's populist message that ``it's your fight too.'' The Dukakis ad consists of a rolling list of corporate political action committees that have contributed to Gephardt's campaign. ``Is Dick Gephardt really fighting your fight, or theirs?'' asks the narrator. Dukakis does not accept PAC contributions. Gephardt, making a stop at Baltimore-Washington International Airport, called the Dukakis ad ``absolutely ridiculous'' and said only 5 percent of his overall contributions are from PACs. He said all of his PAC contributions were fully disclosed, and he charged that Dukakis has received millions of dollars ``from special interests who do business with the state of Massachusetts.'' ``It raises the specter of a serious conflict of interest,'' Gephardt said and added that his campaign would release a partial list of those contributors Friday. Responding to Gephardt's response, Dukakis aide Leslie Dach said, ``The Dukakis campaign does not take a dime of corporate PAC money or any money from a lobbyist registered in the state of Massachusetts.'' Bush also joined the negative fray with an ad appearing in South Carolina, which holds a GOP primary on Saturday. The ad denounces Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole for not being able to get Judge Robert Bork's Supreme Court nomination confirmed by the Senate. And it says Dole has failed to vote with the Reagan administration 30 percent of the time. The candidates stepping up their media campaigns in the final stretch included Bush and Dukakis with their bulging campaign coffers and Jesse Jackson who has borrowed money to keep his presidential drive going. Dukakis put TV ads in six additional Super Tuesday states between Wednesday and Thursday, bringing his total to nine _ North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Washington, Florida, Texas and Maryland. Bush's ad director, Sig Rogich, said the vice president has been running ads in Florida, Texas, South Carolina and most other Super Tuesday states. ``You'll see more of our ads now in the last few days before Super Tuesday,'' he said. Jackson planned to start $100,000 worth of TV ads Friday in eight Southern states. The TV purchase, Jackson's largest so far, targets Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia. Dole's latest negative ad attacks Bush for supporting Reagan's veto of a protectionist textile trade bill and mocks his explanation: ``C'est la vie.'' Frank Fahrenkopf Jr., chairman of the Republican National Committee, said the Bush-Dole match has become ``pretty rough'' but that that is not all bad, as long as they keep their advertising accurate. ``In many ways I've welcomed what's happened,'' Fahrenkopf told reporters in Boston. ``In January I was concerned with the lack of fire in the belly.''
AP881004-0081 	X	A prison officer was killed today by a bomb planted in the car he was driving in Belfast, police said. The bomb exploded as the officer was driving through predominantly Protestant east Belfast, said the Royal Ulster Constabulary, the province's police force. The victim was not immediately identified, but police said he was a prison officer in his mid-40s. Police said children from a nearby elementary school were walking home for lunch when the bomb exploded nearby, but escaped injury. There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the bombing. Prison officers are among the targets of the Irish Republican Army in its campaign to rid Northern Ireland of British rule and unite it with the Irish Republic. It was the 81st killing in the province this year, and brought the official death toll since Northern Ireland's present strife erupted in 1969 to 2,699.
AP880408-0064 	X	A 9-year-old runaway driving a van on Interstate 95 fled police at speeds up to 100 mph before crashing into a guardrail while his teen-age companions slept in the back, state police said. The boy was in critical condition at Johns Hopkins Hospital today with head and chest injuries, while his 14-year-old brother and their 12-year-old friend were in satisfactory condition, police said. The boys' names were not released because of their ages, and investigators were to meet with the youngsters' parents this morning, Maryland State Police Sgt. James Black said today. The three boys, from suburban Trenton, N.J., apparently were en route to Florida on Thursday in the van owned by the 12-year-old's parents, police said. The older boys were asleep in the back of the van during the chase, Black said, and are not cooperating with investigators. State police said they were told that a van was being driven erratically on the Delaware Turnpike, just across the Maryland line. The chase began when a Maryland trooper signaled the van to stop and it accelerated to speeds of up to 100 mph. The driver lost control, and the van veered across the median strip, slamming into a guardrail and overturning on the northbound lanes about 10 miles north of downtown Baltimore, police said.
AP880720-0087 	X	Radio dispatcher Jani Kochever received a very special early morning call from Clark County Sheriff's Deputy Greg Chaney, known on the air as code number 140. ``Control 2, 140,'' Chaney said Tuesday. ``Personal request.'' ``Go ahead,'' replied Ms. Kochever, known on the radio as Control 2. ``Jani, will you marry me?'' Chaney asked. ``She sat there with her mouth open,'' said fellow dispatcher Pam Shurtliff. ``I almost answered for her. I was going to say, `Yeah, she'll marry you.''' When Ms. Kochever recovered, she replied, ``140, Control 2, absolutely I'll marry you. ``And then another deputy said, `You can't back out now, because we're all witnesses,''' the bride-to-be recalled. Ms. Kochever said she and Chaney had been dating about 10 months, but she had no hint he would make his graveyard-shift proposal. No wedding date has been set, but stay tuned.
AP880628-0228 	X	Claude Monet's Impressionist painting of his wife in a meadow became the third highest priced work at auction Tuesday, going for $24.59 million to an anonymous telephone bidder, Sotheby's said. The price for ``Dans La Prairie'' (``In the Meadow'') broke the record for a Monet set 24 hours earlier at Christie's, which sold his painting of a blue house for $6.55 million, also to an anonymous telephone bidder. The two sales of Impressionist and modern paintings and sculpture by the rival firms totaled nearly $123.5 million. Sotheby's also sold a Monet landscape for $2 million and set a record price for Pierre Bonnard, whose painting of a woman in her bath fetched $3.78 million. A picture of two women musicians by Henri Matisse sold for $2.83 million. Only one buyer of works realizing more than 1 million pounds ($1.72 million) was identified: Japan's Fujii Gallery paid $2.17 million for Pierre-Auguste Renoir's portrait of a young woman in a yellow hat. ``The picture of his wife was Monet's most important work to appear on the market for 20 years,'' said Sotheby's expert, Michel Strauss. ``There was ferocious bidding which lasted for five minutes between two people on the telephone and no one in the saleroom appeared to be bidding while it was going on,'' said Fiona Ford, Sotheby's spokeswoman. Auctioneer Julian Barran opened the bidding at $6.8 million after Sotheby's had estimated the picture to be worth around $10.3 million. The highest auction prices have been paid for flower paintings by Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh. His ``Irises'' sold to an anonymous buyer at Sotheby's in New York last November for $53.9 million. Van Gogh's ``Sunflowers'' was bought by a Japanese insurance company at Christie's in London in March 1987 for $39.85 million. Monet, a Frenchman known as the father of Impressionism and the greatest master of that style, painted his wife in 1876 when they were living at Argenteuil near Paris. The summery picture depicts Camille in a white dress and hat, with a parasol behind her, reading a book as she lies among tall grass and wild flowers. The picture was sold by trustees of the estate of the late David David-Weill, an art collector who bought it about 1938 in Paris from the art dealers, Wildenstein.
AP901114-0041 	X	Here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers in the United States and abroad. --- Nov. 13 Birmingham (Ala.) Post-Herald on the Persian Gulf crisis: Whatever lies ahead in the Persian Gulf, the large new deployment of forces ordered by President Bush is justified. ... The magnitude of the force being built up in the gulf sends a necessary message, too, to all Americans: This commitment is irrevocable - and may be costly. War against Iraq would be no quick-fix intervention on the order of Grenada or Panama. It could be long and bloody. President Bush, who has handled many aspects of the gulf crisis with skill, has yet to level with the public about the possible sacrifice ahead. --- Nov. 11 Grand Forks (N.D.) Herald on the Persian Gulf: It would be reassuring if Bush toned down the rhetoric while he built up the armies, as well. There may yet be a diplomatic solution to this crisis. There have been suggestions that Iraq might be satisifed with better access to the sea, control of an uninhabited sandbar and an indemnity for Kuwait's well-documented theft of oil and its shenanigans in the oil cartels. With these conditions, Kuwait could be restore as an independent nation, perhaps with a U.N. peace-keeping force stationed there. If such a settlement is possible, it ought to be sought. It is far more attractive than the war. Saddam may yet reject it, of course. Then the consequences are on his shoulders. If it is not offered before thousands of lives are lost, the president will need to explain his failure as a diplomat to his people and to history. --- Nov. 13 The Charleston (W.Va.) Gazette on the Persian Gulf: Is President Bush preparing to invade Iraq and Kuwait, without asking Congress for a declaration of war, just as he invaded Panama without Congress' approval? Would he do it without a United Nations decision authorizing warfare? Questions like these hang in the air as Bush continues his bellicose tone and his military buildup in the Middle East. ... Bush contends that he is acting to deter aggression, to undo Iraq's seizure of tiny Kuwait. But that's window-dressing. ... No, America and other nations are acting strictly to protect the Mideast oil supply that sustains the industrialized world - an understandable goal. The nagging question is: does one man have the right, all by himself, to plunge America into a major war? ... We would feel less uneasy if he would promise not to send 400,000 young Americans into a blood bath without asking Congress first. --- Nov. 13 Delaware County Daily Times, Primos, Pa., on the death of Stormie Jones: Doctors are vigorously trying to find out what exactly killed Stormie Jones, the 13-year-old Texas girl who underwent a historic heart-liver transplant in 1984. ... But all forensic medical technology in the world is useless in telling us what kept Stormie going and her chin up the past 6{ years. Stormie battled her way through hell - a living hell. She survived a war in which many of us would have been mentally conquered. ... This courageous little girl captured the hearts of America - time and time again as she showed us all how to manhandle adversity and what it really means to live. ... --- Nov. 8 The Marietta (Ohio) Times on the U.S. elections: An expert, as most people know, is someone who offers an opinion from far away. ``Pork barrel'' is used to describe government money that funds a project in somebody else's neighborhood. Now, Tuesday's national election figures have given us a new definition: ``Bum'' is somebody else's congressman. ``Throw the bums out!'' supposedly was the cry of the land, at least according to media prophets before the election. Wednesday morning, however, America woke up to find Congress almost exactly as it was before the vote - before the budget-tax debacle, before the savings and loan bailout, before the pay raise issue, before ethics inquiries, before any of the other decisions that supposedly inflamed right-thinking patriots ... So, basically, on election day, we got what we asked for. We apparently are being duly represented. --- Nov. 12 The New Mexican, Santa Fe, N.M., on the elections: What the voters did on Nov. 6 should give neither the Republicans nor the Democrats much comfort. Neither major party really won or lost much. Although the returns gave a few members reason to worry because of the closeness of the tally, they set the U.S. on no new course. The state of the economy and events in the Persian Gulf will probably do more to shape politics in the next two years than did Election Day, 1990. . .. If messages were sent to Congress they were that taxes are unpopular, perhaps even more unpopular than the Democrats believed. Despite the difficulty of this year's tax fight, and the votes' reaction to it, taxes will probably be an issue both in 1991 and 1992. The sour taste of the 1990 tax debate likely sets the stage for harder fights over budget cutting in 1991 and 1992. ... ---
AP880512-0279 	X	RJR Nabisco Inc. announced it has formed a new company, Del Monte Foods, to combine the operations of its worldwide Del Monte operations and other portions of Nabisco Brands Inc. The new company will be headquartered in Coral Gables, Fla., and will stand as a separate major operating unit of RJR Nabisco, the Atlanta-based consumer products giant said Wednesday.. RJR Nabisco Vice Chairman Robert J. Carbonell, who is also chairman of the American Trade Consortium, will serve as chairman and chief executive officer of Del Monte Foods. ``Through Del Monte Foods, RJR Nabisco will be positioned to fully leverage the value of the Del Monte name as a global brand, covering both fresh fruit and processed fruits and vegetables,'' Carbonell said. The consolidation also will allow the company to increase its presence in Latin American countries, he said.. Del Monte Foods will provide management for four operating divisions: Del Monte Tropical Fruit Company; Del Monte Foods USA; Del Monte Foods Latin America; and Del Monte Foods Europe. The operations of the combined division had 1987 sales of about $2.5 billion and net income of about $1.3 million. Del Monte Foods' worldwide operations include food processing facilities in the United Sates, central and South America, the United Kingdom, Europe and Africa. Del Monte Tropical Fruit has production operations in Cameroon, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Hawaii, Kenya and the Philippines.
AP900102-0083 	X	AIDS victim Ryan White spent the New Year's holiday with pop singer Michael Jackson, resting and watching movies at Jackson's California ranch, White's mother said Tuesday. Jeanne White said her son had been at Jackson's ranch in Santa Barbara, Calif., since Thursday and was expected to return to Cicero later Tuesday. ``They've had a really good time,'' Mrs. White said in a telephone interview. She said the trip had taken her son's mind off of his most recent physical ailments. White, who turned 18 last month, has recently suffered staph infections, a low-platelet count, a hernia, a protein deficiency and fluid retention. A hemophiliac, White contracted acquired immune deficiency syndrome from a blood transfusion. Four years ago, he was barred from attending Western Middle School near Kokomo by officials who feared the AIDS could be transmitted to other students. A judge ruled that Ryan should be allowed to attend school because the disease can not be transmitted through casual contact. Since then, the Whites have moved to Cicero, where Ryan attends Hamilton Heights High School. White was hospitalized before Christmas to alleviate swelling in his abdomen caused by fluid retention. During the two-day hospital stay he lost four pounds of fluid, his mother said. ``It made him more comfortable.'' Mrs. White said his treatments include drinking a protein supplement five times a day.
AP901027-0022 	X	About 800 Daily News editorial workers struck Friday rather than accept management's order to cross picket lines set up by eight other unions at the financially troubled tabloid. Management at the nation's second-largest city daily flew in the replacement workers to help circumvent a violent strike that began Thursday night when 1,800 employees walked out. Substitutes were imported from Tribune Co. newspapers in Orlando, Fla., and Chicago. Officials of the Daily News, which is owned by the company, said the paper would be on newsstands this weekend. Daily News director of labor relations Edward Gold said the paper would begin replacing workers if they failed to show up at work ``as soon as possible.'' The newspaper has 2,600 unionized employees. ``This is not a typical labor strike situation,'' said political reporter Frank Lombardi. ``They've declared an all-out war on the unions. They don't want negotiation, they want total capitulation.'' Union contracts expired in March. The News, using management and replacement workers, claimed it printed and distributed 611,000 copies of Friday's newspaper. The normal daily circulation is 1.18 million, second only to the Los Angeles Times among metropolitan newspapers. But deliveries of the single edition were spotty at best after firebombs, rocks and other projectiles were hurled at delivery trucks leaving plants in New Jersey, Brooklyn and Long Island. The Daily News was unavailable at rush hour at many midtown Manhattan newsstands, suburban railroad stations and other spots in the metropolitan area. The content was limited as well. The paper had just 48 pages, with just 7{ pages of local, domestic and international news articles. In comparison, last Friday's paper contained 116 pages. Sporadic violence was reported again Friday night. Cars and buses carrying replacement workers again were pelted with rocks as they drove from the Brooklyn plant. Two strikers were arrested on charges of reckless endangerment, police spokesman Mark Warren said. The News has lost about $115 million and seen daily circulation slip by about 700,000 in the past 10 years. The strike was good news for the Daily News' competitors in the battle for tabloid survival in the city. New York Newsday and the New York Post printed additional copies in an effort to pick up News readers. Outside the News' highrise headquarters on 42nd Street, pickets marched and union leaders told workers to head home for the day. Editorial employees from The Newspaper Guild initially honored the picket lines, then joined the strike at what was billed as an informational meeting Friday afternoon. Barry Lipton, the local Guild president, said the decision to strike was made after the News told union officials that replacement workers had already filled some editorial jobs. The News has taken a hard line in its negotiations with the unions, saying it must eliminate labor abuse to save $50 million to $70 million a year. The unions say the paper is trying to break them. Michael Alvino, president of the 700-member drivers' union, called the strike at about 10 p.m. after 60 drivers with the most seniority were fired and replaced with non-union workers. Union workers had walked out early Thursday after management ordered one worker to stand rather than sit on the job. The only one of 10 unions not involved in the strike is the New York Typographical Union, whose 200 members have lifetime guaranteed jobs. Late Thursday, replacement workers driving delivery trucks were attacked in New York and New Jersey. Eleven arrests and two minor injuries were reported. ``This vandalism and outright violence by the strikers is deplorable,'' said John Sloan, the News' vice president for labor relations. ``These are orchestrated and purposeful criminal acts.'' A truck leaving a Kearny, N.J., plant was firebombed at 3:10 a.m. in neighboring Harrison, N.J., although no one was injured. Two men were arrested shortly after the incident for possession of three Molotov cocktails, Kearny Police Lt. Michael Davitt said. Two trucks in Brooklyn were attacked, including one that crashed into two parked cars after it was pelted with debris. Similar incidents in Garden City led to six arrests for disorderly conduct at the plant there. There were two arrests in Brooklyn and one more in New Jersey. Sloan, in a statement issued by the News, also said the families of News executives were threatened overnight by union members.
AP900913-0078 	X	A forest fire in the southern Black Hills moved into Custer State Park early today. More people fled their homes, and the U.S. Forest Service bolstered its firefighting efforts. Park Superintendent Rollie Noem said the fire jumped Highway 87, the park's main north-south road, at about 3 a.m. A lodge and some private homes in the area were evacuated. Forest Service spokeswoman Mary Sue Waxler said the size of the fire was about 3,000 acres. About 350 people were fighting the fire, Waxler said, with 100 more on the way. No injuries and no structural damage were reported. No buildings were threatened but fire trucks were standing by to protect property. On Wednesday, 14 homes were evacuated in the general path of the fire. The fire stopped advancing about 1{ miles from the homes. The number of people who live in the area was not known. But officials said 25 families went to a temporary shelter at the Custer Armory looking for places to stay. Shelter director Mary Hutt said all found rooms either with family or friends. The fire was reported about 10:30 a.m. Wednesday by a state fire lookout. Officials said it was caused by logging equipment in a timber sale area south of Cicero Peak. Cicero Peak is a 6,100-foot mountain about 10 miles south of Custer and 10 miles west of the western border of Custer State Park.
AP880527-0303 	X	A government advisory committee Friday unveiled a series of measures to bring down soaring land prices, including promoting the relocation of government offices outside of Tokyo and more underground and high-rise construction. A government report in April said land prices skyrocketed last year, with the most expensive real estate in central Tokyo valued at 34 million yen, or $272,000, per square meter, or more than $6.7 billion an acre. The medium- and long-term recommendations also include tax reform to encourage development of farmland within cities for housing and the use of taxes on idle land to promote construction of leisure facilities, said Tadashi Miyagawa of the Management and Coordination Agency. The panel is expected to present its plan to the new administrative reform committee on May 30 for further study. A final report will be presented to Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita in mid-June, Miyagawa said. The government is expected to decide soon after which measures it will take to bring down inflated land prices, he said. Politicians and consumer groups have called the land price problem the most urgent in Japanese society. Most young people have given up hopes of owning their own home.
AP880627-0280 	X	The Senate voted Monday to slash the proposed 1989 Internal Revenue Service budget by $241 million and use the money for the Customs Service's anti-drug program. The anti-drug measure was part of a larger bill that also calls for a 4 percent pay increase in 1989 for all federal civilian employees except members of Congress, and 4.1 percent for military personnel. The Senate approved an amendment requiring that no future pay increase for members of Congress take effect until voted on separately by the House and Senate. The White House had opposed reducing the IRS spending. It cautioned that the ``impact of this reduced level on returns processsing and taxpayer services would be devastating.'' IRS Commissioner Lawrence B. Gibbs had complained that the reduction could cut revenues by $1.4 billion next year. The cut in the IRS budget, to the 1988 level of just under $5.1 billion, was part of a bill that included $15.9 billion for the Treasury Department and its agencies, the Postal Service and several other federal agencies. The vote was 81-4. The spending bill is $246 million less than the administration asked and $196.3 million below what the House passed. The measure is about $801 million over what was appropriated for the same agencies for 1988. When he sent his budget to Congress in January, President Reagan asked for a $241 million increase for the IRS ``to improve the speed and accuracy of tax processing and expand information services provided to taxpayers'' in light of the 1986 tax overhaul. The House agreed. When the Senate panel was considering the appropriations bill last week, James C. Miller III, director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said that holding the IRS budget to this year's level would ``jeopardize service to the public both in terms of taxpayer inquiries and timely returns processing.'' ``These areas are particularly high priorities of the administration, given the need to implement tax reform fully and the desire to avoid repeating the disruptions of the 1985 filing season,'' Miller wrote. However, the Senate committee concluded that ``the level of funding proposed by the committee will allow the IRS to meet its revenue-raising targets established in the'' deficit-reduction agreement reached by the White House and Congress last year. The bill includes $1.05 billion for the Customs Service, which is $79 million above what the administration requested and $41 million over what the House passed. ``I am proud to say that this bill goes the extra mile, beyond the president's budget to maintain our important anti-drug effort at some of the most important drug enforcement agencies,'' said Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., chairman of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on the treasury, postal service and general government, which wrote the measure. As part of the Customs Service efforts against illegal drugs, the bill recommends the agency buy a surveillance airship capable of carrying a sensor that can detect ship movements in the Gulf of Mexico. The measure includes money for customs to develop four long-range P-3 Orion planes to use in drug surveillance missions. The Senate approved an amendment by Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., suggesting that the Postal Service not activate the second part of a contract with Perot Systems Corp. until the General Accounting Office studies the contract. The corporation, headed by billionaire H. Ross Perot, would get a share of the profits from cost-saving suggestions it made to the Postal Service. Simon contends such a lucrative contract should not have been awarded without bids.
AP900427-0146 	X	The Hubble Space Telescope orbited with its big eye open Friday after ground controllers overcame communications problems and lifted its lens cover, but its electronics were shut down due to a malfunction. Those problems, however, were not the immediate concern of shuttle Discovery's astronauts, who prepared for Sunday's return to Earth. ``You've been released from Hubble support. It's on its own,'' Mission Control's Story Musgrave told the five crew members. ``That's great news,'' replied Discovery commander Loren J. Shriver. ``There are handshakes and smiles all around up here. I'll bet it's just that way back down there, too,'' added mission specialist Steven Hawley. ``Who's buying tonight?'' ``We'll buy when you all get back,'' Musgrave replied. Flight director William Reeves said it was too early to cheer. `We still have an important part of the mission to go,'' Reeves said. ``We reserve our celebration until the crew is safely on the ground.'' Discovery is to land at 9:48 a.m. EDT Sunday at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. Landing would have been delayed a day if astronauts Bruce McCandless and Kathryn Sullivan had had to perform a space walk to crank open the telescope's lens cover, or aperture door. The shuttle trailed 50 miles behind Hubble when the aperture door opened 380 miles above Earth, but passed 3.7 miles beneath the telescope later in the day. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration had planned to release its first test image from the $1.5 billion telescope on Tuesday, showing an open star cluster in the constellation Carina. But Steve Terry, director of orbital verifications, said that would be delayed by problems with Hubble's high-speed antennas. Scientific data will follow in a month or two. Hubble's 10-foot aluminum aperture door was opened to the heavens at 10:30 a.m. EDT, nearly four hours later than planned, exposing its finely polished 94.5-inch mirror to starlight for the first time. Ground controllers sent a signal commanding the door to lift even though the telescope was in an automatic ``safe mode,'' with all motion stopped because of problems in linking its high-speed dish antennas with a relay satellite. One of the two antennas apparently had swung too far, and the telescope shut down, said Jean Oliver, a Hubble deputy project manager. If future movements of the antenna have to be limited to avoid the problem, it would have only slight impact on the telescope's observing time, Oliver said. Terry said the opening of the aperture door could not have been delayed much longer. ``There has to be a point where you say they have to go their way and we have to go ours,'' he said of the astronauts. When the door opened, two of Hubble's four position-stabilizing gyroscopes stopped working; later, engineers got them back on line. The motion of the lens cover knocked out the gyros, said Dave Drachlis of the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland. That, too, kept it in the safe mode. Oliver said it would be Saturday morning before the telescope is brought out of the safe mode. It will take another day to get the instrument operating normally again, putting controllers at Goddard several days behind. ``We're trying to be very deliberate and trying not to cut any corners and do anything fast because we feel there's a lot at risk here and we want to make sure we're doing it properly,'' Oliver said. ``We've got a long future ahead of us, and we want to make sure it starts off on the right foot.'' NASA said the telescope was safe and in a stable position. Tolerances for the telescope systems were set particularly narrow for the first operations and that was the cause of many malfunctions, Terry said. In addition to that trouble, there were two communications outages totaling several hours. ``We're cautious, and that's natural,'' Terry said. ``We've got a very expensive spacecraft here and we don't want to do anything to jeopardize the usefulness. ... We'll get to the point where we know exactly what the spacecraft will do and set the limits appropriately.'' Terry said Hubble is designed with safe modes so it can be ``the master of its own destiny'' in case contact with an orbiting communications system is lost for extended periods. The telescope will share the system, known as Tracking and Data Relay Satellites, with other space craft. Except for a tiny wedge opening, the lens cover had been closed and the telescope blind ever since Hubble was released by the astronauts Wednesday. From its orbit high above Earth's distorting atmosphere, the telescope will enable astronomers over its 15-year working lifetime to look back 14 billion years and possibly determine the age of the universe. The universe is believed to have been created about 15 billion years ago in a cosmic explosion. The late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, for whom the telescope is named, provided the basis for the Big Bang theory of creation. He discovered during the 1920s that the universe is expanding and that the farther the galaxy is from Earth, the faster it is moving away. In honor of the astronomer, Sullivan carried with her into space an eyepiece from the 100-inch telescope at California's Mount Wilson Observatory that Hubble used to make his pioneering observations. ``It's a great pleasure to have something of such historical significance and something that so directly symbolizes Edwin Hubble's fundamental contributions to astronomy,'' she said Friday afternoon. Once back on Earth, the eyepiece will be displayed at the observatory.
AP900914-0222 	X	Retail prices in Britain were up 10.6 percent in August compared to levels a year earlier, the highest rate of inflation since 1982, the government reported Friday. Higher prices for gasoline, heating oil, food and beer pushed the index up 1.0 percent between July and August, the Central Statistical Office said. The last time inflation was in double figures was in March 1982 when the rate was 10.4 percent. Excluding mortgages and local taxes, the rate of increase was 7.9 percent in August, up from 7.0 percent in July, the government said.
AP880809-0204 	X	Following are state-by-state ozone pollution figures released by the Sierra Club. After each city or county's name are four numbers: 1-high reading for 1988; 2-high reading for 1987; 3-the number of times through Aug. 3 that reading exceeded federal standard; 4-the number of times the area is expected to have exceeded standard in 1987 when the Environmental Protection Agency completes its statistical review for the year.
AP900524-0160 	X	The United States has no plans to return a Mexican doctor brought across the border by bounty hunters to face charges of participating in a drug agent's murder, officials said Thursday. Mexico's request for the return of Dr. Humberto Alvarez Machain was received by the State Department and the U.S. will ``respond in due course,'' Justice Department spokesman Doug Tillett said. However, officials who spoke on condition of anonymity noted that Mexico had not made a formal extradition request, calling merely for Alvarez's return. The officials also pointed to recent public statements by the Justice Department stressing that the U.S. had no plans to return Alvarez to his homeland. Justice Department spokesman David Runkel said several weeks ago that he couldn't ``foresee any circumstances'' under which Alvarez would be returned. Alvarez, accused of participating in the torture and murder of Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique Camarena, was abducted by bounty hunters and flown to El Paso, Texas, on April 3. His arrest by waiting DEA agents touched off a diplomatic flap between the two nations that included a charge by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari that it violated Mexico's sovereignty. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said in a May 10 interview, however, that he was not concerned about the circumstances of Alvarez's delivery to the U.S. border. He invited bounty hunters to turn over more Mexicans wanted in the Camarena case. ``Whatever actions that are carried out by Mexican authorities are of no moment to us,'' Thornburgh said. The Mexican Foreign Ministry said in a statement issued Wednesday in Mexico City that the government wanted Alvarez's return for questioning about possible crimes in Mexico. The statement did not mention specific cases. ``This request is based fundamentally on the fact that the procedure followed by his captors and those who transferred Dr. Alvarez Machain violated'' articles of the Mexican constitution, the statement said. Alvarez is scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles on Friday for a hearing on defense motions to dismiss the charges because the circumstances of his arrest amounted to ``outrageous government conduct.'' Last week, the Justice Department filed papers claiming that a Mexican police official last year delivered an offer to swap a suspect in the Camarena case for a fugitive wanted by Mexican authorities. The papers quoted the Mexican official as saying he was speaking on behalf of Mexican Attorney General Enrique Alvarez del Castillo. The Mexican attorney general has since issued a statement denying the Justice Department claim. Antonio Garate Bustamante, a former Mexican police official residing in Los Angeles, has said he arranged Alvarez's abduction for DEA.
AP900608-0188 	X	The Arab League's U.N. envoy Friday said Israel's new hard-line government was a ``blessing in disguise'' and said the right-wing adiministration might force the United States to get tougher with its ally. Clovis Maksoud, permanent observer of the 22-nation Arab League, said the government, which will consist of acting Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's right-wing Likud bloc and smaller ultranationalist and religious parties, could force Congress to reexamine its relationship with Israel. Shamir's government, which still needs parliamentary approval, has vowed to expand Jewish settlement in the occupied territories, and has indicated it is prepared to use harsher measures to quell the 30-month-old Palestinian uprising against Israel's rule of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The United States has called Jewish settlements an obstacle to peace and has tried to encourage Israel to open peace talks with a Palestinian delegation. ``I hope formation of this new Cabinet will jolt the U.S. administration and the U.S. Congress to come back to their historical sense of fairness in the Middle East,'' Maksoud said after a strategy meeting with Arab representatives. ``This can be a blessing in disguise if it awakens the U.S. administration from permissiveness to allow Israel to proceed with the defiance of the international community,'' he added. Maksoud also criticized the United States saying it has shielded Israel from international censure by using its veto in the U.N. Security Council. On Thursday, the United States blocked an Arab-sponsored Security Council resolution calling for a U.N. team to visit the occupied territories and investigate allegations of Israeli abuses of Palestinian human rights. Arab states plan to reintroduce the measure.
AP900410-0204 	X	Soviet emigre Sarah Rudman proudly speaks two words in English: ``America good.'' It's quite a statement for someone starting life over, both she and her husband unable to work because they are crippled, living in a barren apartment an ocean and a continent away from their homeland. The Rudmans, both 64, have a hand-me-down bed without sheets, a folding table, two chairs, two lamps, a 13-inch portable TV and one curtain for two windows. All the furnishings were either donated, left over or scrounged. ``I never had many things. Books and spiritual things are much more valuable than material things,'' Mrs. Rudman said through an interpreter. ``We didn't think everything will fall from the sky. I'm happy with what I have.'' She gained something worth more than home furnishings, so she doesn't mind using a corner of her bed as a sofa. ``We wanted to be free and not be persecuted because we are Jewish,'' she said. ``We wanted our kids to be free, to get an education. People here are really free. They can express themselves. They can observe any religion they want to. Everybody does what he wants.'' Mrs. Rudman, who taught kindergarten in Odessa, hasn't left the apartment since her Dec. 20 arrival in Brighton Beach. She's laid up with a bad back, a condition stemming from typhoid fever contracted during World War II when she was evacuated to Siberia to escape invading Nazis. Her husband, Lazar, was a shoemaker until he suffered a disabling head injury in a 1983 streetcar accident. He also was mugged before leaving the Soviet Union and walks with a cane. The Rudmans came to America with a daughter and her three children. Another daughter stayed behind because her child had meningitis, and she hopes to emigrate later this year. Until then, they are reluctant to talk about Soviet life. As refugees, the Rudmans are entitled to food stamps, welfare and federal rent subsidies. They also get money for rent and food from the New York Association for New Americans, which gets the bulk of its support from United Jewish Appeal. Nevertheless, they had to borrow money from relatives and other immigrants to pay their $525 monthly rent. They were too proud at first to seek government help. ``We're a little embarrassed,'' Mrs. Rudman said. The Rudmans, who first applied to leave the Soviet Union in 1978, learn English through a paperback translation book or by watching cartoons and other TV shows. ``I am afraid of nothing. A person dies only once,'' Mrs. Rudman said defiantly. Then she clasped her hands in a gesture of prayer and said in broken English, ``America good. So very good.''
AP880711-0230 	X	Central bankers from leading industrial countries agreed Monday on common standards for the minimum capital reserves that banks must hold. The accord ``will help to strengthen the soundness and stability of the international banking system and will remove an important source of competitive inequality for banks arising from differences in national supervisory requirements,'' said Karl Otto Poehl, president of West Germany's central bank. It represents ``a significant step forward in international supervisory cooperation,'' he said after the meeting at the headquarters of the Bank for International Settlements. The new standards detail a framework for measuring capital adequacy and set a minimum reserve standard for each country's authorities to put into force. A BIS committee chaired by Bank of England associate director Peter Cooke completed the draft proposals last December. Swiss and British banks, which already have high capital requirements, are expected to benefit particularly from the new rules. Banks in France and Japan generally will have to boost their reserves because their countries have relatively lenient requirements. Central bankers endorsed a target capital ratio of 8 percent of a bank's assets, to be achieved in each country by the end of 1992. At least half of a bank's capital base counted toward the standard must consist of equity capital and published reserves from after-tax retained earnings. Central bankers from the Group of 10 major industrial countries and Switzerland attended Monday's meeting. The Group of 10 includes Belgium, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy, Japan, Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United States.
AP880415-0173 	X	American rice farmers may benefit in the early months of the 1988-89 season from a shortage of exportable crops in competing nations, an Agriculture Department report said Friday. World rice production from the 1987-88 harvests is forecast at 304 million metric tons, milled equivalent, down 4 percent from last year, the department's Economic Research Service said. Weak monsoons left Asian producers with limited supplies. Meanwhile, global rice consumption is expected to increase 3 percent, leaving world stockpiles at their lowest level relative to use since 1974. The U.S. rice supply also has tightened, reflecting a 6 percent reduction in last year's harvest. But the department's planting survey in early March indicated American producers intend to boost 1988 rice plantings by 19 percent to 2.8 million acres. That could boost this year's output sharply. ``U.S. farmers will harvest rice crops at least four months ahead of their Asian competitors,'' the report said. ``Since the United States will be the major source of supply during those months, some increased export opportunities may exist towards the end of 1988.'' However, analysts cautioned that some foreign importers, if possible, may ``choose to wait until the beginning of 1989, when prices are likely to decline during the Asian harvest.''
AP881017-0054 	X	A current trade fair in Canton features bullet-proof vests, anti-riot helmets and shields, electric shock batons and other equipment for use by China's newly formed riot police force, an official daily said today. The China Daily said the China Jingan Equipment Import and Export Corporation is also displaying tear gas bombs, dye bombs, submachine guns and anti-riot guns. It quoted an official of the corporation, the only Chinese firm authorized to deal in police equipment in China, as saying more than 1,000 sets of anti-riot helmets and shields have already been supplied to police in Henan, Liaoning and Tibet provinces. Tibet is troubled by a small independence movement and tension between Chinese and the local Tibetans, while there have been reports of labor unrest in Liaoning, northeast China. The creation of the riot police force coincides with what Chinese security officials acknowledge is a rising problem with crime and social unrest resulting from the state's gradual loosening of political and economic controls. In the past few years there have been riots in Tibet, student demonstrations calling for greater democracy, labor strikes and protests by farmers about pollution. Jingan official Yin Guishan said the cost of providing a riot police officer with a full range of equipment would be about $1,350. He said the company is also designing China's first armored police personnel carrier, a $81,000 vehicle carrying 10 people and equipped with surveillance instruments and weapons.
AP900527-0001 	X	Police units Saturday prevented Contra rebel leaders from leaving two hotels where they came to negotiate their disarmament with the government. One Contra leader said they were being held ``hostage.'' Later in the day, members of a government investigative team announced they found no proof of Contra claims that the army massacred 14 rebels who had laid down their weapons. Contra leaders broke off the disarmament talks with the government on Friday demanding an investigation of the purported army massacre of the rebel fighters and 100 civilians May 18 near Waslala in Matagalpa province, 150 miles northeast of Managua. Contra commander Oscar Sovalbarro was named to the commission created Friday, but he remained in Managua on Saturday in a hotel where he said he and 18 other Contras were being held ``hostage'' by police. Sovalbarro said 10 other Contra leaders were prevented from leaving another Managua hotel. He said the rebels were considering a hunger strike in protest. The police who surrounded the Managua hotels did not appear to be threatening the rebels, but Contra leaders said they were told they could not leave the hotel grounds. Presidential spokesman Danilo Lacayo and Interior Minister Carlos Hurtado told The Associated Press that police had been placed at the hotel for the Contras' own protection. The leftist Sandinistas, who turned over power to President Violeta Barrios de Chamorro last month after losing February elections, still control the military and police. Sovalbarro, also known as Commander Ruben, said Saturday's police action showed the Contras ``have a good reason not to trust the government.'' He spoke from the garden of the Hotel Mercedes, where about two dozen police from the elite black beret unit were seen patrolling. The investigative commission, named by Mrs. Chamorro, traveled Saturday by helicopter to the area of the purported massacre and interviewed army and rebel leaders, said Santiago Murray, representative of the U.N. International Support and Verification Commission, at a news conference later in the day. ``We haven't been able to confirm the existence of any dead alleged by the Nicaraguan Resistance,'' he said. He said the commission members found no information about ``any dead or other serious incident.'' People interviewed near Waslala in the community of Zinica, where rebels alleged the incident occurred, seemed surprised by news of a massacre and said they had heard about it from a Managua radio station. The investigating commission consisted of government delegates, U.N. officials, Roman Catholic Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo and a Contra representative. A May 4 agreement between the Contras and the Chamorro government set a June 10 deadline for more than 11,000 rebels to surrender their weapons. But on May 19, the Contra high command suspended the disarmament, claiming authorities were not providing enough food, housing, jobs and security measures for fighters who lay down their arms. Only 1,404 of the rebel fighters have been demobilized, the government said. The U.S.-backed Contras fought the Sandinista government in a 10-year war that left 30,000 dead. The rebel fighters said they would give up their arms after Mrs. Chamorro, also backed by the United States, took over the presidency from Sandinista President Daniel Ortega on April 25. The Contras say their chief concern is that the army is controlled mostly by Sandinistas.
AP900613-0180 	X	About 120 prospective jurors in the trial of three teen-agers accused of raping and nearly killing a Central Park jogger were given questionnaires Wednesday asking their attitudes on race and crime. All three defendants are black teen-agers who live in Harlem. The victim is a 29-year-old white investment banker. The 54-question, 17-page form was handed to those from a pool of 382 who told state Supreme Court Justice Thomas Galligan they would be able to stay for a six- to eight-week trial. The questionnaire asks if the prospective juror or his or her children attended an integrated school; whether the person has lived in a racially mixed community, and whether he or she has friends of a different race. It also asks whether the individual would prefer help from a police officer of his or her own racial or ethnic group if in need of assistance. The questions were agreed on by all parties in the case, said Michael Joseph, attorney for defendant Antron McCray, 15. Members of the Guardian Angels community patrol group marched in front of the Manhattan courthouse, passing out leaflets that said the case ``is not a question of black and white; it's about what's wrong and what's right.'' McCray and five other youths are charged with gang raping and beating the woman as she jogged through the Central Park the evening of April 19, 1989. The victim suffered brain damage in the assault and cannot remember the attack or identify her assailants. After emerging from a coma and being treated at a Connecticut rehabilitation hospital, she returned to work at Salomon Brothers and recently was named a vice president. McCray, along with Yusef Salaam and Raymond Santana, both 16, are being tried as adults on charges of attempted murder, rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, assault, robbery and riot. The other three youths are to be tried later, also as adults. If any in the first group were to be convicted, they would be sentenced as juveniles and would face a maximum of 10 years in prison. The questionnaire also asks potential jurors if they have a particular bias against people accused of sex crimes, whether they or any of their relatives jog, and whether they use Central Park often. In addition, there are the usual questions about whether the prospective juror has relatives in law enforcement or has been a crime victim. Jury selection was to continue Thursday.
AP901025-0058 	X	An army newspaper marking the 30th anniversary of a rocket explosion says the mishap killed 165 people, including a leading general, making it the worst known space-related accident in the Soviet Union. The Red Star article on Wednesday said a prototype rocket's second stage was accidentally ignited on the launch pad, causing an explosion that burned many of the victims beyond recognition. Secrecy has shrouded the accident at the Baikonur Space Center ever since the explosion shot flames into the Central Asian sky on Oct. 24, 1960. No official death toll or technical details of the accident have ever been released, despite several articles describing the event. A monument to the victims lists only 54 names and published obituaries claimed that Field Marshall Mitrofan Nedelin, commander in chief of the Strategic Rocket Forces, died in an unrelated plane crash. Red Star reported on the accident's 30th anniversary Wednesday, saying ``the tragedy at the cosmodrome caused the deaths of 165 people.'' James Oberg, an American expert on the Soviet space program, said Western observers estimated the death toll to be as high as 300. He said in an interview from his Houston home that many victims were immediately shipped back to Moscow for burial. The newspaper said the rocket was a new design, and Oberg said he believes it was a new type of missile. He said space officials told him the explosion came after the first stage failed to ignite, and technicians tried to replace one component. ``Somebody plugged an umbilical cord into the wrong connection,'' igniting the second stage, Oberg said. The flames caused fuel trucks to burst into fire, unleashing fireballs. People in the vicinity ``just burst into flames like candlewax,'' he said. The Red Star account said the explosion was caused by an ``unnecessary sequence of events in carrying out one of the operations while the valves of the second stage were opened, starting the engine.'' Oberg, hearing the Russian-language version, said it did not offer a clear technical explanation of the accident. The newspaper said the rocket's launch was repeatedly delayed ``for technical reasons,'' including leaking fuel. It quotes Stanislav Pavlov, then chief of the launching group, as saying a few drops of fuel burned holes in technicians' rubber gloves when the rocket's joints and tubes were checked for leaks. ``We didn't pay attention to this, but later we learned it was dangerous,'' he was quoted as saying. Pavlov said he was standing 15 to 20 yards from the rocket when it exploded. ``The site was on fire and full of smoke,'' he told the newspaper. ``The first thought that came to my mind was `that's it. The end.''' Pavlov said he rushed to a nearby bunker housing the control center, but was still so badly burned he spent three days unconscious and one year in the hospital recovering. He said his injury was not entered on his official record until 1988. Pavlov said he was told Nedelin survived the explosion, bt died later in the hospital from his burns. He said many of the other victims were so badly burned they could not be identified visually.
AP900419-0186 	X	BUENOS AIRES, Argentintics
AP880728-0135 	X	A millionaire businessman who promised to bankroll a new life for a welfare mother of five faces criminal charges and a $1.4 million judgment in a bank fraud and is not free to spend his money, attorneys said today. James Gisclair had offered to buy a house for Anita Hunter and her family and provide her with a job, a college education, a car and a nurse to care for the children. But court records show that a subsidiary of Capital Bank won a civil judgment against him after alleging in state court that Gisclair defrauded the lender out of $1.3 million. The judgment includes interest on that amount. The criminal charges stem from the civil case, according to Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Gregorie, who filed charges against Gisclair two weeks ago in federal court accusing him of making a false statement to a bank. Capital's attorney, Hugh Culverhouse Jr., said today that he understands Gisclair must satisfy any outstanding judgments before he can freely spend his money. The attorney added that in a deposition filed after the judgment, Gisclair said his businesses were worthless. Gisclair did not immediately return calls to this Boca Raton office today. He said Wednesday that he made his promise to Hunter because he felt like ``nobody was doing more than lip service to make a difference'' about poverty. ``I kept driving by and seeing the homeless,'' he said. ``It started to really bother me. ... I honestly became consumed by the urge to do something about it.'' For 28-year-old Anita Hunter, struggling to raise her children, including a month-old son, in a drug-ridden inner-city Miami neighborhood dubbed ``The Hole,'' his offer is a ``fairy tale'' come true. ``I can't believe this is happening to me,'' she said. ``It's just a miracle from God. I've struggled and hoped for so long to get my children out of this neighborhood and into a safe environment.'' Gisclair, a 43-year-old New Orleans native and principal owner of six Boca Raton enterprises, including a real estate management company and a restaurant, found the family through Livia Garcia of Miami's Community Development Department. He told her he wanted to help real people he could see and talk to. ``My idea is to see exactly where my money is going and be able to measure its success,'' said Gisclair, who has four children. ``The idea is to get Anita to become self-sufficient to the point where she can pay her own rent on the house, pay her own bills and do everything on her own someday. I plan to pay for everything until she reaches that point.'' He said he would find a home for the family in Boca Raton, Delray Beach or Deerfield Beach, about 100 miles north of Miami. Ms. Hunter would work during the day and attend Florida Atlantic University at night so she could pursue her goal of becoming an accountant. It's not the first time Gisclair has tried the idea. An earlier effort to help a welfare mother with four children failed because ``she was totally unwilling to participate,'' Gisclair said. ``And then one day she asked me to pay half of her rent because her ex-husband didn't come through with the money. I volunteered to pay it directly to her landlord, but she said, `No, send it to me.' That was enough for me to realize I was being connned.'' That's why Gisclair's has attached some conditions. ``I just want Anita to be honest with me,'' he said. ``I want her to become self-sufficient, and she has promised to have no more children. I will see to it that she gets medical care as well to take care of that.'' Ms. Hunter said Gisclair's conditions are ``tiny'' compared to the chance he's giving her family. She said the neighborhood she lives now is so dangerous she doesn't let her children _ Kentrail, 10, Krystal, 4, Grady, 3, Alex, 1, and Antjon, 1 month _ play outside. ``It's like a fairy tale,'' she said. ``These things don't happen every day and they never happen to me.'' Gisclair said he was shocked by the family's poverty when he met Ms. Austin on a visit to her cramped, one-bedroom apartment Friday. ``There was one bed and a hot plate,'' he said. ``But the place is immaculate and so are the children. ``They're well disciplined; they're clean. If you took one look at their smiles you'd want to do the same thing.''
AP900628-0009 	X	East Germany will bid goodbye to an old currency by burying it in salt mines and feeding it to foundries, clearing the way for new cash and a radically different way of life. At the stroke of midnight Saturday, the 42-year-old East German mark of the ousted Communist regime will be replaced by one of the free market's most powerful forces, the West German mark. An East German who buys a beer with his old money in the minutes before midnight could have his change brought back in West German marks, so quick is this change to take place. That modest event would signal the economic unification of the two German states, the end of four decades of East German socialism and the de facto creation of a single Germany. The West German state bank, the Bundesbank, has trucked in 25 billion uncirculated West German marks, said spokesman Sigfried Guterman in Frankfurt. ``Transporting money is our business,'' he said Wednesday. ``This was a little more complicated.'' Guterman said heavily guarded trucks from Bundesbank offices throughout West Germany brought 600 tons of paper money _ 400 million individual bills _ and 500 tons of coins during the past two months. The money was distributed to 15 different cities. The East German State Bank has been taking that money to 10,000 different locations, where it will be available to East Germans beginning Sunday. Long lines at banks nationwide continued as East Germans filled out forms to convert their savings accounts to West German marks. Guterman said there have been no major problems replacing one currency with another virtually overnight. The 25 billion in West German marks is new, uncirculated cash that should be enough to accomodate the nation, Guterman said. East Germany now only has 12.3 billion East German marks in circulation, said Bernd Schroeter, spokesman for the East German State Bank. All citizens will be asked to deposit their remaining East German cash in banks by July 6. There, it is to be counted, sorted and wrapped. After final inventory, the bills will be stored in salt mines pending their later destruction, Schroeter said. East Germany is not equipped to burn large amounts of bills in environmentally safe ways, he said. Guterman said East Germany might have to use the Bundesbank facilities to burn the money. Most of the coins are pure aluminum _ which drew chuckles from Westerners _ and two denominations are in copper. Schroeter said these will be melted down and recycled. The East German currency is small and flimsy compared with the large West German bills. The 50-mark bill carries the picture of Friedrich Engels, who with Karl Marx drafted the blueprint for modern socialism. The back depicts a giant factory spewing smoke. The East German currency was non-convertible and virtually worthless outside the East bloc. After the East German revolt last autumn, it was traded on the black market at a 20-1 rate for West German money. Now, small savings accounts will be traded at a 1-1 rate, with larger amounts converted at a 2-1 rate. The Bundesbank has been planning a new West German currency for years, and will begin circulating some notes on Oct. 1. By the end of the next year, Guterman said, all the current money will be replaced. Concidentally, one of the first bills that goes into circulation on Oct. 1 _ the 100 mark note _ will depict the East German city of Leipzig. ``It is more or less by accident,'' Guterman said. ``Nobody knew there would be a currency union when these bills were designed.'' Leipzig is on the back of the bill because it is the birthplace of the person on the front, 19th century German pianist Clara Schumann. Leipzig is also the home of the an East German currency mint, and Guterman said it will be used to print part of the new 5 mark note.
AP881208-0281 	X	South Korean automobile production surpassed the 1 million mark for the first time Thursday. The nation's automakers said production since the start of the year totaled a record 1,000,660. The tally is expected to reach 1.09 million vehicles by year's end, compared with 979,739 vehicles in 1987, they said. Hyundai Motor Co. produced the most vehicles, 594,645, followed by Kia Motors Corp., with 225,267, and Daewoo Motor Co., 150,047.
AP900918-0023 	X	A set of valleys said to resemble the animated character Gumby and a meteorite impact crater unlike any other seen in the solar system are visible in the Magellan spacecraft's newest pictures of Venus. The computer-assembled pictures, released by NASA Monday, were made from data Magellan collected Saturday as it started its 243-day mission to peer through the planet's thick clouds and map its rugged landscape. ``It's just excitement time. The scientists are in there like bees to honey,'' said Ed Sherry, a Magellan technical assistant at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. One picture shows a 40-mile-long set of valleys or troughs. ``It's a feature we nicknamed Gumby,'' said Steve Saunders, Magellan's chief scientist, referring to the animated clay figure from a children's TV show of the 1950s. Two valleys, each about three miles wide, look like Gumby's legs. The north end of the two valleys converge into a single trough, resembling Gumby's upper body. And the trough ends in a box canyon that looks a bit like Gumby's head. The Gumby-like feature probably formed when underground molten rock flowed out of the area, causing the ground above to collapse along fault lines and create the valleys, Saunders said. Similar features have been seen on Mars, he said. Another picture released Monday shows a meteorite impact crater about five miles wide and seven miles long. Large lobes of material ejected by the impact are visible north, south and east of the crater. That means the crater was formed when a meteorite slammed into Venus at a low angle, rather than from directly above, Saunders said. Shaped like a kidney, it is unlike any other impact crater seen in the solar system, NASA said. A possible explanation for the strange shape is that the meteorite broke into several large chunks just before it hit, Saunders said. Magellan, which was launched from the shuttle Atlantis in May 1989, was to have formally begun its $744 million mapping mission on Aug. 29, almost three weeks after it went into orbit around Venus. But engineers temporarily lost radio contact with the spacecraft on Aug. 16 and again Aug. 21.
AP881228-0045 	X	President Reagan and other U.S. officials marked the ninth anniversary of Soviet intervention in Afghanistan stressing that they expect Moscow to honor its commitment to complete military withdrawal by Feb. 15. Failure to meet the deadline would get Moscow ``off to a very bad start'' with President-elect Bush's incoming administration, warned Michael Armacost, the State Department's undersecretary for political affairs. The State Department also predicted Tuesday that the Afghan national army will collapse after the Soviet withdrawal is completed and that some top leaders of the Kabul government regarded by the populace as traitors might choose to flee the country. The Soviet Union sent troops into Afghanistan on Dec. 27, 1979. Western analysts say their were 110,000 to 115,000 Soviet troops in the country supporting the government against rebels armed by the United States. About half have been withdrawn. ``I fully expect them to honor their obligation to withdraw completely by Feb. 15,'' President Reagan said in a statement issued by the White House during his California vacation. But the president and other officials also voiced concern that the withdrawal has been halted and Soviet offensive military operations have resumed. ``Even today, as Feb. 15 approaches, the Soviets continue offensive military operations in Afghanistan,'' Reagan said. ``The introduction of new weapons, and the escalation in the use of Soviet warplanes in bombing raids against Afghanistan call into question the Soviet commitment to a peaceful solution.'' In a report released Tuesday on the military situation in Afghanistan, the State Department said the rebels made sizable gains this year despite the introduction of Backfire bombers and other new weapons by the Soviets. The report called the Afghan army ``demoralized force'' suffering shortages of qualified officers and manpower, despite forced conscriptions and bribes of tribal militia. ``Most experts agree that it probably can survive no more than a matter of months after a complete Soviet withdrawal,'' it said. The report also hailed talks earlier this year the Soviets had with resistance leaders without representatives of the Kabul government. ``Moscow now appears ready to explore all options that could lead to a political settlement,'' the report said.
AP901214-0035 	X	European Community leaders gathered today for a summit aimed at launching the trading bloc on the road to a federated Europe. Britain, the prime objector, is in a more conciliatory mood since the resignation of Margaret Thatcher. The 12 leaders beginning their two-day meeting today in the flag-bedecked Italian Parliament also will consider granting a $2.4 billion aid package to the Soviet Union and increased help to other East European countries. The Europeans received a new exhortation from President Bush to stand firm on the Persian Gulf crisis. In a letter Thursday to Italian Premier Giulio Andreotti, current holder of the rotating summit chairmanship, Bush said Iraq's blanket release of foreign hostages should not lessen pressure on Iraq to pull out of Kuwait. ``We must continue to maintain a very rigid attitude,'' Bush said, according to Italian officials. British Prime Minister John Major, who succeeded Mrs. Thatcher Nov. 28 and is virtually unknown to the other summiteers, joined them at the opera for a performance of ``Tosca'' on Thursday night. Major, 47, was holding separate prior talks with Andreotti, Dutch Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers and German Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Kohl and French President Francois Mitterrand are pressing for economic union and a single currency, perhaps by the year 2000, and for a form of political union that would strip member nations of many sovereign powers. Major, keen to avoid a repeat of the Britain-versus-the-rest showdown that helped topple Mrs. Thatcher after the summit in Rome in October, was optimistic despite Britain's continued opposition to key unity proposals, his aides said. ``We see ways in which significant progress can be made,'' a senior British source said Thursday night. ``But there are areas where we will reaffirm our positions quite clearly, including our opposition to having a single currency imposed upon us,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, on Thursday urged the 12 EC heads of state to work on restarting talks to liberalize world trade. The global trade negotiations broke down in Brussels last week, in part due to the EC's refusal to cut farm subsidies enough to satisfy the United States. The talks are to resume at a lower level next month in Geneva. Soviet aid, which topped the agenda of this summit, was given fresh impetus by the U.S. decision Wednesday to give the Soviet Union $1 billion in loan guarantees to buy American farm products and manufactured goods. Andreotti's spokesman, Pio Mastrobuoni, said he was confident of agreement, despite some arguments that the Soviet Union needs help in managing its huge resources, including distributing its harvest, rather than handouts and loans it will have trouble repaying. On financial union, Andreotti cornered Mrs. Thatcher at the October summit by getting the others to agree to establish a single central banking system - the prelude to one currency - by January 1994. Mrs. Thatcher objected loudly. In a change of tone, Major planned to argue the British alternative of a European currency that would circulate alongside the 12 existing currencies, without ruling out an eventual sole currency. On political union, Britain has shifted toward French and German proposals for giving the EC a formal role in security. And aides said Major was confident Britain will not be alone in opposing other proposals that would give the community far-reaching powers over issues ranging from health, social policy and education to taxation and transport. The EC nations are Italy, France, Britain, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Greece, Denmark and Germany.
AP880319-0115 	X	The Red Cross acknowledged Saturday it erred in distributing 24 pints of blood that had failed AIDS procedures but said none of the blood was used and none carried the deadly virus. The Food and Drug Administration said Friday that the questionable one-pint units were shipped last month to hospitals and laboratories by Red Cross centers in Washington and Nashville, Tenn., but were never used on any patients. The FDA did not identify the facilities that received the blood. ``While it should not have been shipped, it actually proved to be HIV (AIDS virus) free, and a number of units underwent processing that would inactivate the virus,'' said Gene Jeffers, American Red Cross spokesman. He said there was ``no known health hazard associated with the 24 units of blood. We were very fortunate and lucked out in that there was no human risk at all involved here.'' Jeffers acknowledged, however, that five of the units tested positive for hepatitis B antigens and could have posed a health risk had they been used in transfusions. However, they were not used, he said. Initial tests showed 10 of the questionable units contained HIV antibodies, which signaled an AIDS danger, but those units underwent a process that breaks down the blood into components for specific uses and eliminates the virus, Jeffers said. The remaining nine units, he said, were from donors who were unacceptable because they previously tested ``false positive'' for AIDS, but all the actual units were tested as safe, he said. Federal officials estimate that the chances of getting AIDS, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, from a transfusion are one in 40,000. The chief victims have been homosexual men or intravenous drug users. No one is known to have recovered from the disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections. The Nashville Banner reported Saturday that two additional pints from disqualified donors were actually used in transfusions, but no patient was harmed. The newspaper gave no details of the transfusions but said follow-up tests of the blood donors showed they did not carry the AIDS virus. Jeffers said he knew of no actual transfusion of blood that should have been rejected. The FDA report said none of the questionable blood was used on patients. As a result of the errors, the FDA said it has increased its periodic audits of the blood supply and instituted new training procedures for blood bank employees. The mistake in Washington was discovered in a routine audit. The Tennessee errors came to light in an FDA investigation that followed a lawsuit against local blood bank officials by a woman who said she became infected with AIDS through a blood transfusion. Two senior officials of the Washington regional office of the American Red Cross _ John McGraw and Frederick Darr _ have been suspended with pay for 30 days pending an investigation of their actions, said Richard Schubert, president of the American Red Cross. Schubert said no officials in the Nashville center had been disciplined, but that the investigation there was continuing. Six of the questionable units of blood were from the Washington center and the other 18 were from Nashville, the FDA said.
AP881123-0251 	X	The Consumer Product Safety Commission has defended its record on ridding the market of dangerous toys but is urging parents to consider safety when shopping for their children this holiday season. The commission said Tuesday that its joint effort with the U.S. Customs Service has resulted in the seizure of 891,000 toys that failed to meet federal safety guidelines between Oct. 1, 1987 and Sept. 30, 1988, and 162,668 toys since Oct. 1 of this year. But commission officials urged parents to heed the age recommendations and warning labels on toys.
AP880503-0043 	X	A proposed bypass road in eastern England has caused a battle between conservationists who want to save the habitat of a rare moth and people who want heavy traffic diverted from their village. Six hundred residents from the village of Dersingham marched 1{ miles on Monday to Queen Elizabeth II's Sandringham estate in Norfolk to demand that work begin on the bypass, which they first called for 25 years ago. After pressure from conservationists, environment secretary Nicholas Ridley said he would consider revoking planning permission for the bypass, which would cut through a bog on the royal estate that is home to the moth. A group called the Nature Conservancy Council said the road could wipe out the moth, Choristoneura Lafauryana, by destroying the bog where it breeds. But the demonstrators doubt there are any moths left. ``A big survey by the Nature Conservancy Council led to nothing _ they couldn't even find the damn moth,'' said one marcher, James Crowe.
AP901027-0112 	X	A Roman Catholic bishop denounced the IRA as followers of Satan during a eulogy Saturday at the funeral of a man forced to drive a bomb into a military checkpoint. ``They may say they are followers of Christ, some of them may even still engage in the hypocrisy of coming to church, but their lives and their works proclaim clearly that they follow Satan,'' said Bishop Edward Daly. Daly spoke at the funeral of Patsy Gillespie, 42, who was forced to drive a van loaded with explosives into a military checkpoint outside Londonderry. The explosion Wednesday morning killed Gillespie and five British soldiers. Gillespie was a civilian kitchen assistant in the army's Fort George camp in Londonderry. In its claim of responsibility for the attack, the Irish Republican Army branded him a collaborator. The predominantly Roman Catholic IRA is seeking to drive the British out of northern Ireland and unite it with the mainly Catholic Republic of Ireland. Gillespie's wife, Kathleen, said the family's home had been taken over by armed men Tuesday night and her husband taken away while the rest of the family was held hostage. The IRA used similar tactics in setting off a bomb the same morning at a checkpoint in Newry. One soldier was killed. A third attack in Omagh failed and the driver escaped injury. At the funeral Saturday of the soldier killed in Newry, the Rev. Anthony Doran said 21-year-old Cyril Smith died because he had helped the driver and then ran back to warn his comrades. Smith ``gave his life by running back into danger for his friends,'' the Catholic priest said. Londonderry was a flash point of the ``troubles'' that erupted in Northern Ireland in the late 1960s, leading to a revival of the IRA as the self-proclaimed defenders of the Catholic minority. The city remains one of the IRA's strongholds. Daly, for years a stern critic of the IRA, said the outlawed organization had ``descended a step lower to use people's lives to launch their vile attacks.'' ``Everyone is now at risk from these evil people with their foul and obscene actions. They corrupt everything and every person they touch,'' Daly said. ``We weep for the Gillespie family this morning. We weep for the families of the soldiers who died and we weep for our own city, a city we all love deeply. ``We weep because we have among our citizens men who are capable of planning and carrying out and even attempting to justify such evil.'' Gillespie died on his oldest son's birthay. His wife and three children -Patrick, 18, Kieran, 16, and Jennifer, 12 - wept at the graveside. Among the 60 wreaths was one from the Kings Regiment, which lost five soldiers in the attack. The death toll in Northern Ireland rose to 63 with the killing Friday night of Tommy Casey, a member of the IRA's legal political wing, Sinn Fein. Protestant guerrillas were suspected in the killing.
AP880929-0156 	X	The Soviet Union released the first photos of its secret space shuttle Thursday in a move that appeared timed to steal some of the thunder from the launch of Discovery. Photos of the Soviet craft, which looks just like the American shuttle, moved on the wires of the official Tass news agency at about the time the Discovery was scheduled to blast off from Cape Canaveral. Along with the photos of the Soviet craft, the agency transmitted a brief dispatch on the American launch. The Soviet shuttle previously was not shown to the Soviet or foreign public, although some Western reconnaissance photographs of the craft or mockup versions have been taken. The Tass photos showed the Soviet spacecraft against a twilight sky, with its black-tipped white wings and fuselage. The letters ``CCCP'' _ Russian for U.S.S.R. _ were written in red on one wing. State-run Soviet television did not broadcast the Discovery launch live, but showed only a film clip of the American craft sitting on the launch pad in darkness. An announcer read a report on the blastoff during a regularly scheduled newscast a few minutes later. The evening television news program Vremya, which is watched by millions of Soviets, showed still pictures of the Soviet shuttle as its third item and said that ground tests of its equipment were continuing. It showed film of the Discovery launch about 20 minutes later. Radio Moscow's international newscast also juxtaposed reports about the U.S. takeoff with updates on the Soviet space station Mir _ meaning both Earth and Peace _ with three cosmonauts aboard. Despite repeated comments by Soviet officials that their shuttle has a distinct design and capabilities, the Tass photographs indicated it was quite similar to the American version. The Soviet shuttle, under development since at least 1982, has delta-shaped wings like its American counterpart, and is mated to its booster rocket, the Energia, in a similar way as the American craft. Mir was pictured in front of the huge Energia booster, which can carry payloads of up to 100 tons _ much more than the American shuttle. In the photos, the booster and shuttle stood upright on tarmac, apparently at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Soviet Central Asia, but it was not clear if it was stationed at a launchpad. Soviet officials have said their shuttle will be launched by the end of 1988, but have not given an exact date. They have acknowledged technical problems are causing delays. They also point to the Jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the U.S. shuttle Challenger, which caused a 2{-year suspension in the U.S. manned space program, as an example of the hazards they are trying to prevent. The Soviet shuttle's first flight is to be unmanned. The Energia booster has been tested once, on May 15, 1987, when it successfully carried aloft a dummy spacecraft. Soviet program also has had difficulties this month. Soviet officials said they have lost radio contact with one of two Mars probes launched in July. In addition, the re-entry to Earth of a Soviet and an Afghan cosmonaut aboard a space capsule that docked with Mir nearly failed because of equipment problems and human error. The Soviets' main goal has been to maintain a continuous manned presence in space. Cosmonaut crews have been aboard the orbiting space station Mir without a break since February 1987. Yuri Romanenko set a space endurance record last year by staying in space 326 days, and officials have said they expect the two cosmonauts currently aboard the craft to break Romanenko's record.
AP880903-0132 	X	Solidarity leader Lech Walesa risked his reputation with supporters by halting a series of strikes in exchange for a vague government promise to discuss legalizing his banned union movement and allowing union pluralism. But the stakes in the upcoming talks also are high for the government. After strikes this spring and summer, Poland appears doomed to recurring episodes of costly labor unrest unless the government can find a way to build social confidence, or at least patience, for austerity measures to fix the ailing economy. Church mediator Jacek Ambroziak said Saturday the ``roundtable'' talks on broad social and political issues could begin very soon. After a preliminary meeting with authorities Wednesday, Walesa won a promise that Solidarity would be on the agenda. But many pro-Solidarity workers, distrustful of government promises, feared Walesa agreed too easily to end the strikes without a firm agreement from authorities to legalize Solidarity or at least some form of independent unions. Solidarity, the only independent union federation in the Soviet bloc, was crushed with martial law in 1981 and banned the following year. Walesa was unsmiling when asked about opposition among workers to ending the strikes. The question was put shortly after a tense late-night meeting Wednesday with strikers in Gdansk. ``I have always trusted my instincts,'' he said emphatically. ``And my instincts tell me I am right.'' Walesa spent the next two days going to shipyards and ports in Gdansk and to a coal mine in Silesia to persuade strikers to return to work, and he delivered the same message by phone to the Szczecin port and the Stalowa Wola steel mill. In the end, he bent all the strikers to his will, but workers who considered the strikes the best way to pressure the government appeared likely to hold Walesa responsible if the talks failed to produce concrete results. Although the government could easily undercut Walesa by torpedoing the talks, the Solidarity leader may be calculating that the government has just as much to lose as him if they fail. As a political scientist who advises Polish leader Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski suggested in a prominently published interview Friday, the meeting could be key for marshaling support for hard economic choices. It is easy to stir strikes, said Antoni Rajkiewicz, but ``very difficult to persuade people to do things ... demanding patience, endurance and thrift.'' He said the government needs through the talks not only to reach a working consensus with the Roman Catholic church and Solidarity activists, but also to stimulate the imagination and mobilize the mass of people now caught up in ``tides of hopelessness.'' The extent of the hopelessness was revealed in a poll of high school students. The poll, released Friday, said 64 percent believed they lacked chances to realize their life goals in Poland Meanwhile, there were growing signs in the press of a possible government shakeup to try to increase public support for the economic reform program, which so far has led to strikes and inflation expected to top 60 percent this year. ``The lack of confidence in the government is a political fact,'' the influential communist party weekly Polityka commented this week. Changes in the government ``will not deliver more money to our pockets or more goods to our shops,'' it said. ``However, they will give radical reform a boost.''
AP880630-0269 	X	For a decade Henry Cisneros has been the pre-eminent Hispanic leader _ a successful mayor, an articulate speaker, a thoughtful politician, a powerful role model. At the height of his prestige, he is moving to the sidelines, maybe even getting out of politics. He's turned down an offer to speak at the Democratic National Convention, quashed any talk of the vice presidency and ruled out trying to spread his ``San Antonio Miracle'' with a statewide race in Texas in 1990. Even as national attention turns to the power of Hispanic political clout this year, Cisneros says he may not seek re-election as mayor. Cisneros said of his move out of the national arena, ``It's a decision that I've made.'' ``For the moment my total and exclusive focus is on San Antonio issues,'' he said. ``We're in a period of tremendous resurgence in San Antonio after the Texas slump and we have many, many initiatives here that are setting this city in position for the long run.'' His attention is also focused on a year-old son with a congenital heart defect who will require extensive surgery at about the same time as the 1990 campaigning season. Cisneros also talks regularly with two businessmen about joining them in a corporate venture. To other Hispanics leaders across the country, not having Henry Cisneros out front carrying the torch will be a setback. ``He leaves a huge vacuum,'' said Los Angeles City Councilwoman Gloria Molina. ``His soft-spoken yet direct way is what we need and I don't know if anyone else can sit down with presidential candidates, labor leaders, or whoever and look them in the eye and not give in. ``As he steps to the sidelines, he'll be sorely missed,'' Molina said. ``Everyone thinks it's a shame but they respect his priorities,'' said Harry Pachon, director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials. Cisneros, interviewed four years ago by Walter Mondale as a possible running mate, says he'll campaign for Democrat Michael Dukakis this fall, and he'll announce Sept. 15 his decision on a possible fifth term as mayor. He often points out he's never put himself forward as any sort of official Hispanic spokesman or leader, and says he turned down a chance to address the Democratic National Convention in Atlanta because he just didn't have the time. ``To take weeks off to prepare a quality major speech and then deliver it just adds to the weight of what I need to do here on things I have promised to do,'' including projects on water, education, drugs and a domed stadium, he said. He says he doesn't see a gap in Hispanic political leadership. ``I can see from the Jesse Jackson experience that it might be useful to have someone who could bring people together and speak for people in a way that Jackson is doing,'' Cisneros said. ``But frankly, the Hispanic community doesn't lend itself to that. There are more differences in the Hispanic community than there are in the black community. ... My sense is what is happening is very productive and that is a lot of leadership is being developed across the country.''
AP881108-0225 	X	As the final appeals echoed across the land from a long, bare-knuckle campaign, Americans headed for the polls to choose between presidential rivals George Bush and Michael Dukakis, and determine the makeup of the next Congress and the outcome of thousands of races for lesser offices. ``It's in the hands of the gods and the American people,'' said Bush as he completed his final campaign swing Monday. ``I know this race is within our grasp both here and across this country,'' Dukakis told more than 10,000 supporters in Los Angeles.
AP900731-0091 	X	The nation's murder toll is headed toward a record high this year, with an 8 percent expected increase in the number of slayings that is attributable mainly to drug-related crime, the Senate was told today. ``If this pace continues _ and there is every reason to believe it will _ 1990 will be the bloodiest year in American history,'' said Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph R. Biden, D-Del. The committee issued a forecast of 23,220 murders in America this year at the present rate. That is 2,000 or 8 percent over the 1989 toll. The total would also top the previous record high of 23,040 murders in 1980. Scarce supplies of cocaine in the nation's major cities have contributed to the carnage, causing drug pushers to fight each other for turf, the committee said. It also blamed the proliferation of assault rifles. ``These firearms have become the weapons of choice for drug dealers and the weapons of doom for law enforcement personnel,'' said a report prepared by the panel. It said a third cause is a fresh wave of teen-agers, the offspring of the so-called baby boomers, entering the high-crime years. The projected toll would make 1990 the third straight year of increasing murders in the United States. The murder toll actually dropped 18 percent between 1980 and 1985 but has increased 22 percent since then, the committee said. ``The nation is faced with an immediate peril and the situation is doomed to get worse unless we take action today,'' Biden said. He urged swift House action on a Senate-passed omnibus crime bill with a ban on nine semiautomatic assault weapons and the death penalty for 34 federal offenses. A hush fell over the hearing room as Dr. Lynn Richardson, associate chief of emergency services at Harlem Hospital Center in New York, told of a young woman rushed in several weeks ago. The right side of her head had been blown away by a slug from a high-powered rifle in an apparent drug-corner shootout. Doctors managed to save a 6 1@2-month-old fetus, ``the ultimate innocent bystander,'' she said. The woman died but the child is still clinging to life, she said.
AP900319-0112 	X	The Supreme Court today refused to reinstate a $550,000 award won, and then lost, by a Texas couple whose daughter was born with deformities after her mother took the anti-nausea drug Bendectin. The justices, without comment, let stand a federal appeals court ruling that overturned a jury award against Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, the drug's manufacturer. Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Brock of Moscow, Texas, sued Merrell Dow after their daughter, Rachel, was born with deformed limbs in 1982. A three-member panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last year threw out the $550,000 judgment a federal trial jury had awarded the Brocks. The appeals court said there is no definitive scientific proof that Bendectin causes birth defects, and said the jury award was based on speculation. ``Speculation unconfirmed by ... proof cannot form the basis for causation in a court of law,'' the appeals court said. The full 5th Circuit court, by a 8-6 vote, refused to review the three-member panel's ruling. The dissenters noted that six experts testified for the Brocks that Bendectin is capable of causing birth defects, and that three testified they believed the drug caused Rachel's deformities. The dissenting judges said appellate courts should not substitute their understanding of the facts for that of a jury merely because medical experts disagree. Bendectin was marketed by Richardson-Merrell Inc. between 1957 and 1983. More than 30 million women used the drug during pregnancy. Richardson-Merrell later became Merrell Dow, which last July merged with Marion Laboratories Inc. and became Marion Merrell Dow Inc., based in Kansas City. The company stopped selling Bendectin 1983, although the Federal Drug Administration never has rescinded approval of it. Merrell Dow in 1984 agreed to pay $120 million to more than 800 families to compensate children with birth defects allegedly caused by Bendectin. As part of the settlement, the corporation did not admit that the drug caused the defects. The settlement was rejected by a federal appeals court, and the lawsuits then went to a consolidated trial in Ohio, where Merrell Dow has its headquarters in Hamilton County. After a 22-day trial in 1985, an Ohio jury found that Bendectin did not cause birth defects when taken in prescribed doses. The case acted on today is Brock vs. Merrell Dow, 89-1189.
AP880326-0050 	X	Despite some misgivings, Wisconsin state senators have approved a measure allowing blind people to hunt deer and other game if accompanied by a sighted hunter. ``Do we really want people out there shooting guns when they don't know where they're shooting?'' Sen. Alan Lasee asked during debate Friday night. ``As much as I have empathy for the visually handicapped, I don't believe I can support this.'' Sen. Brian Rude supported the proposal and noted that the Department of Natural Resources can issue licenses to handicapped hunters. People confined to wheelchairs are allowed to shoot or hunt from an automobile parked off a highway and more than 50 feet from the center of a roadway, he said. The bill extends eligibility for a special permit to people who present medical evidence that they are unable to hunt alone because of a permanent physical disability or handicap, including blindness. Under the measure, a visually handicapped hunter would have to be accompanied by someone who could assist in sighting the firearm. A 27-6 vote sent the measure to Gov. Tommy G. Thompson.
AP900509-0213 	X	Ienner at 36 became the label's youngest president when he took over last April. He was at his new job for less than 48 hours when he heard the Poi Dog tape and decided to make the band his cause celebre. ``I must have had 40 tapes that weekend,'' Ienner said. ``All of the sudden this thing came on and I was astounded by it.'' He especially liked the song ``Living With the Dreaming Body,'' which begins with a lilting tin whistle, and listened to it about 100 times. He later mastered the tin whistle so he could play the intro himself. After checking around, he found Columbia was ``either the 11th or 12th company interested in the band. That really got my juices going. ``Basically we told them we wanted them, and they said they don't want to be with Columbia,'' Ienner said. ``(The band thought), `it's too corporate, it's too monolithic, it's too bureaucratic.''' But when Ienner met Poi Dog's manager, Mike Stewart, they n of America. In 1975, an infamously slow time for the recording industry, earnings totaled $2.37 billion, the RIAA said. In 1978, punk and new wave signaled a revival and the figure jumped to $4.13 billion. In 1988, $6.25 billion was earned. ``We needed to change direction,'' Ienner said. ``There was nothing, just retreading the superstars, just one after another after another.'' Poi Dog would be the Columbia's ``signature band,'' Ienner said, to show ``our musical sensitivity.'' It would also help establish a division within Columbia that would cater to a huge audience carved out in large part by college radio stations looking for an alternative to Top 40 music. Those involved refuse to discuss the deal's financial side. But many in the industry say the band was signed for more than $200,000 for the first album. A new pop band can fetch anywhere from $75,000 to $350,000 for its first record contract, industry officals say. The sum, however, doesn't just pile into the musician's pockets. Much of it is reinvested to pay for the recording costs for the first album. The ballpark figures for recording an album go from about $200,000 to $400,000, said Harold Vogel, an entertainment industry analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co. Another hunk goes to practical expenses such as paying off band members' debts. And still another chunk is invested in upgrading the band's equipment and buying new instruments. The rest goes to lifestyle expenses to maintain the band while they are recording and keep them going until they get to record number two, which brings another windfall. Although Orrall is tight-lipped about how much Poi Dog got, he does give a general breakdown for how it was used: ``What we essentially are doing with our advance is just putting it in an account and paying everyone in the band $1,000 a month so ... everyone can quit their jobs, pay their rent, get their guitar strings and buy their beer,'' he said. To celebrate the contract, Poi Dog Pondering played a surprise set at Columbia's offices. They set up in an elevator and when the doors opened, they began to play. People slowly drifted from their offices into the halls. ``The sound traveled down the elevator banks and people were coming up the stairwells from all the floors,'' said Mary Ellen Cataneo, a Columbia publicist. ``Literally, people had tears in their eyes,'' Ienner said. ``People were all standing there with tears in their eyes.'' It was the first time in 20 years a musician had played live at Columbia's offices. The guy who did it was also a new artist _ a young piano player by the name of Billy Joel.
AP901120-0040 	X	America's No. 1 video chain is swallowing No. 3 in a $40 million deal that gives Blockbuster Entertainment Corp. a total of more than 1,700 stores. Blockbuster agreed to acquire Erol's Inc. of Springfield, Va., a chain of 208 outlets that pioneered the video rental business in 1980 but has struggled amid management shuffles and stiff competition. The deal ``provides an outstanding opportunity for Blockbuster and its franchise owners to broaden the base of ourstores,'' Blockbuster chairman and chief executive officer H. Wayne Huizenga said Monday. Erol's, the nation's third-largest chain behind West Coast-National of Philadelphia, has stores in Philadelphia, Baltimore, Cleveland and Chicago as well as 112 stores in the Washington, D.C., area, where Blockbuster has only 48 outlets and was looking to expand. Blockbuster, based in Fort Lauderdale, opened its 1,500th store Monday, in Vancouver, British Columbia. In all, the chain has stores in 44 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, Canada and England. Erol's founder and principal stockholder, Erol Onaran, said the buyout was in the best interest of his 2,600 employees. ``It was going to be a fight,'' said analyst Drew Beja at Advest Securities. ``And Blockbuster had the resources to win the fight.'' Onaron founded Erol's as a stereo repair shop in Washington in 1963. It was an early pioneer in the video industry, opening stores exclusively devoted to rentals in 1980, and led all other video chains in revenue until Blockbuster surpassed it in 1988. But Erol's has been stagnating since then, and didn't begin to sell franchises until last August, said Frank Molstad, editor of Video Store magazine. In contrast, Blockbuster has been expanding by 400 to 500 stores a year since Huizenga bought the company in 1987 for $19 million, and Huizenga has said sales this year could top $1 billion. Erol's had revenue of $100 million last year, said Jerry Falkner, an analyst at Southwest Research Partners in Boca Raton. While more than 1,700 stores by the end of the year, Blockbuster will still have only about 10 percent of the home video market, said Fran Blechman Bernstein, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.
AP880409-0101 	X	Five OPEC oil ministers agreed Saturday to call two special meetings later this month to consider ways of halting the decline in oil prices, according to the cartel's Nigerian president. The ministers, at the end of a full day of closed-door meetings, made no recommendations for immediate OPEC action to combat the slipping prices, said Nigeria's Rilwanu Lukman, who was chairman of the session. He said he and the oil ministers of Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Venezuela and Indonesia would invite at least seven non-OPEC oil producing nations to meet with them in Vienna on April 23 to discuss ways of cooperating to stabilize oil prices. Lukman declined to identify the non-OPEC countries, but industry sources said they would be Mexico, Egypt, Oman, Angola, Brunei, Malaysia and Colombia. When asked, Lukman said he would not rule out inviting representatives also from the Soviet Union and Norway. The Soviets are the world's largest oil producers. Oil ministers of all 13 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will then meet in Vienna on April 25, Lukman said. He suggested that the non-OPEC representatives might be asked to attend that session as official observers. OPEC had not previously planned to hold any meetings until its regularly scheduled summer conference June 8. Lukman said the five ministers had decided that special meetings were needed to ``look into the situation generally in the market'' and to consider ways of cooperating with non-OPEC countries. OPEC oil ministers held two meetings with representatives of Mexico, Angola, Egypt, Malaysia, Oman and Brunei in the spring of 1986, but the cartel was unsuccessful in persuading those countries to reduce their production. This time the situation is different, according to Lukman. ``Non-OPEC (countries) have, on their own, realized the need to cooperate'' among themselves and with OPEC, Lukman told reporters after the meeting. OPEC often has declared in recent years that it alone cannot be expected to bear the burden of cutting production in order to stablize oil prices. OPEC controls only about 35 percent of the total world oil supply, down from more than 60 percent in the late 1970s. Lukman said the separate April 25 meeting of all 13 OPEC members was called because of the severity of the recent price decline. ``The price is not what we expected it to be'' after having decided last December to maintain strict oil production limits, he said. Oil prices in the open market are at least $3 below OPEC's official target level of $18 a barrel. Lukman said Saturday's meeting had made no recommendation about whether OPEC should reduce its production, either unilaterally or jointly with non-OPEC producers, as a way of boosting prices. He said increased production by non-OPEC producers this year was partly responsible for the oil price slump. Although Iran was not invited to Saturday's meeting, its deputy oil minister, Kazempour Ardebili, flew to Vienna and met separately with members of the group. He said later in an interview in his hotel room that Iran had proposed that OPEC cut its production by at least 5 percent immediately. He said this should be done with or without parallel action by non-OPEC oil-producing countries. Ardebili accused some OPEC members, which he did not name, of sabotaging Iranian initiatives to boost prices by cutting output. His comments appeared to be directed at Saudi Arabia, an opponent of further cuts in OPEC's share of the world oil market. Persian Iran has been at war with Arab Iraq since September 1980, and Iran often accuses other Arab countries of supporting Iraq directly or indirectly in the conflict. Both Iran and Iraq count on revenues from oil exports to help finance their war efforts.
AP900413-0071 	X	President Bush has a 56 percent approval rating among blacks, a huge increase over the ratings given former President Reagan, according to a new CBS News-New York Times poll. Only 13 percent of blacks supported Reagan at about the same point in his presidency, CBS Evening News reported Thursday. In May 1982, Reagan had a 73 percent disapproval rating among blacks; in the current poll, 26 percent of blacks surveyed disapproved of Bush, said Kathleen A. Frankovic, of the CBS network's polling division. CBS-Times polls conducted during Reagan's entire time in office found he had an average 67 percent disapproval rating among blacks, Frankovic said. The new survey is the fourth consecutive Times-CBS News poll in the last six months in which a majority of blacks said they approved of Bush's handling of his job, the Times reported in today's editions. For the last 30 years, five out of six blacks have voted for the Democratic presidential candidate, no matter who the nominee was, CBS reported. In the new poll, one out of 10 blacks said they probably would vote for Bush against a Democratic candidate in 1992, while another 20 percent said their choice would depend on who was running, the Times said. One-third of the blacks surveyed, and 46 percent of the whites, said their opinion of Bush had improved since he became president, the Times said. Blacks were evenly divided on whether Bush is doing a good job handling the war on drugs, while whites approved 56 percent to 35 percent, the Times said. White respondents gave Bush an overall approval rating of 75 percent to 14 percent. The telephone poll of 1,515 adult Americans, including 403 blacks, was conducted March 30-April 2. The margin of error for the entire survey is plus or minus 3 percentage points; for blacks it is 5 percentage points.
AP880928-0151 	X	The curator of Ronnie DeSillers' estate has sued a savings and loan to recover nearly $200,000 she claims the thrift allowed to be improperly withdrawn by the boy's mother. Court-appointed curator Karen Gievers on Tuesday filed suit in Dade Circuit Court against Coral Gables Federal Savings & Loan for allowing Maria DeSillers to withdraw and spend the money, which was donated to pay for Ronnie's medical bills and to help other young liver transplant patients. The withdrawal, she argued, was contrary to state law. The thrift knew the purpose of the money, Ms. Gievers alleged. Seven-year-old Ronnie died at Pittsburgh Children's Hospital in April 1987 while awaiting a fourth liver transplant, and his mother has been involved in legal disputes ever since for refusing to pay the balance of the boy's medical bills. She claims her son received improper care, which the hospital denies. DeSillers is accused of withdrawing about $260,000 from the Coral Gables Federal account, but less than $60,000 has been recovered. The money was allegedly spent on a used BMW car and jewelry, and some was given to her ex-husband and her boyfriend. Some $690,000 were donated to Ronnie from around the country, including $1,000 from President Reagan and $200,000 from Miami Beach industrialist Victor Posner, after a small fund collected by his school was repored stolen. Meanwhile, DeSillers' boyfriend and former fiance, Jose Castillo, pleaded innocent Tuesday to charges that he pawned stolen computer equipment. Castillo, who is free on bond, is charged with third-degree grand theft for possession of the stolen computer and with unlawful consignment of property to a pawn shop. DeSillers accompanied Castillo to the Broward County pawn shop April 2. Circuit Judge Mel Grossman scheduled trial for Nov. 7.
AP901014-0068 	X	Light voter turnout was reported Sunday in municipal runoff elections, the sixth time Hungarians went to the polls in less than a year. In Budapest, the opposition Alliance of Free Democrats won a plurality of votes in the first round of municipal elections Sept. 30 and was leading in Sunday's second round. The liberal Free Democrats led with 36 percent of the vote in Budapest, with about 17 percent of the ballots counted, state-run television reported. The Hungarian Democratic Forum, the strongest force in Parliament, had about 25 percent. The results in Budapest and other urban centers are seen as a test for the center-right coalition government of Jozsef Antall, six months after national elections. Runoffs were held in communities with below 40 percent turnout in the first round of municipal elections. The first-round turnout was 34 percent in Budapest. In the runoffs, a simple majority will decide the vote. Complete results in Budapests and results elsewhere were not expected until Monday. According to state radio, turnout Sunday ranged from 20 percent in some rural areas to about 32 percent of Budapest's 1.5 million eligible voters.
AP880505-0335 	X	Hawaii remains the most popular choice of Americans for summer vacation travel, according to a survey released Thursday by American Express Co. The forecast, based on a mail survey of 350 American Express travel agencies nationwide, showed 27 percent of the agents polled named Hawaii as the top choice for vacation travel this summer. The other leading vacation destinations were Europe with 21 percent, and Florida and the Caribbean with 18 percent. Despite the fall of the dollar against major foreign currencies, the agents said most of their clients planning European vacations this summer are not changing their plans. Florida ranked as the leading family vacation spot, according to 72.5 percent of the agents surveyed, largely because of Walt Disney World in Orlando. Mexico is the summer destination growing fastest in popularity, according to the survey. It found some regional differences, however: Mexico is the fastest growing for travelers from the Northeast and the South, while the majority of agents in the Midwest named Europe as gaining quickest in popularity. For vacationers from the West Coast, the South Pacific _ including Australia, New Zealand and Tahiti _ is growing the fastest. Within the United States, the 10 most popular cities for vacations this summer, in order of preference, are: Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, New Orleans, Washington, Miami, Denver, Boston and Chicago. The survey also found that price and quality of service are the key factors determining the choice of a vacation. Cruises are the most popular type of vacation planned for this summer, followed by all-inclusive resort vacations, escorted tour packages and weekend fly-drive packages, the survey showed. Single men most often choose all-inclusive resort packages for summer vacations, while cruises are the top choice of single women, according to the survey.
AP900914-0170 	X	Feminist leaders said Friday the clock would be turned back 25 years on women's rights if David Souter is confirmed as a Supreme Court justice. ``If we lose this one, we'll never get it back,'' said Eleanor Smeal, president of the Feminist Majority, who is lobbying the Senate to reject the nominee. Smeal said she had read all 200 of Souter's legal opinions and believes he would work to cut off women's access to birth control and abortion. Molly Yard, president of the National Organization for Women, said Souter revealed his opposition to abortion by calling it the ``killing of unborn children.'' ``That's the language of the right wing,'' Yard said. Souter did not use the words during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearings this week, but while New Hampshire attorney general he signed a brief that contained the language. However, during the hearings Friday, Souter said he has not made up his mind on the abortion rights issue and would consider both sides if he is confirmed. ``I have not got any agenda on what should be done with Roe vs. Wade,'' Souter in reference to the case that legalized abortion. ``I would listen to both sides of that case. I have not made up my mind and I would not go on the court saying I must go one way or I must go the other way.'' But Yard said that Souter's repeated reference to the abortion rights position as ``the other side,'' was evidence of where he stood. Smeal and Yard, who have attended most of the hearings, said Souter's answers to questions on constitutionally protected privacy rights concerning birth control indicated he believed in the concept for married couples, but left open whether single people had the same right. Smeal said the addition of Souter to the court would create the majority needed to whittle away at a woman's right to abortion and birth control until access no longer existed. ``It would take about 10 years,'' she said. ``First would be a requirement that teen-agers get parental consent for an abortion, then spousal consent.'' She predicted the court then would restrict the time period in which an abortion could be performed and then limit the kind of facility that could do the operation. Those decisions would be followed by requirements that teen-agers get parental consent for birth control requiring a physician's prescription and later that women get their husbands' consent, Smeal said. ``The last step would be outlawing the sale of birth control to single people,'' she said. ``That would take us back to 1965.'' That year, in Griswold vs. Connecticut, a case involving the sale of contraceptives, the court for the first time recognized a constitutional right of privacy. The decision led to widespread availability of birth control for married and unmarried people. Smeal said women's ability to get out from under the burden of unwanted pregnancies have been the key to the many advances they have been able to achieve outside the home. Smeal and Yard spoke to a rally organized by NOW across the street from the Capitol. About 150 people opposing the Souter nomination attended.
AP900707-0115 	X	As state senators quietly debated whether to override Gov. Buddy Roemer's veto of a strict anti-abortion bill Saturday, hundreds of demonstrators shouted their stands as they broiled in the sun outside. The Senate sustained Roemer's veto of what would have been the nation's toughest state abortion law. The vote was 23 in favor of the override _ three short of the two-thirds majority needed _ and 16 against. Before senators cast their ballots, the parking lot at the skyscraper Capitol was jammed with about 1,500 people as temperatures inched into the 90s. State troopers limited access to the building, allowing almost 200 spectators in the Senate chamber, with another 500 in the rotunda separating the House and Senate chambers. Several hundred more gathered on the Capitol steps or under shade trees on the grounds. Most of the crowd was in favor of the strict anti-abortion bill, which would send abortionists to jail for up to 10 years. Anti-abortionists' cries of ``override, override'' pervaded the thick stone walls of the Senate chamber, in which every chair was filled and spectators lined up along the walls. Another anti-abortion rally was held on the Capitol lawn, while about 100 pro-choice demonstrators stood on the steps above them, shouting ``sustain that veto'' and ``church and state _ separate.'' After the Senate voted to sustain, one pro-choice supporter yelled ``all right'' and was told by security officers to be quiet. Then she ran from the chamber, screaming ``I'm out of here.'' As other viewers quietly filed out of the gallery, abortion rights supporters waved purple flowers and ribbons in the rotunda, shouting: ``We won.'' Anti-abortionists countered with ``We will win. We will win.'' The Senate was to vote against Sunday on the override measure.
AP900720-0171 	X	President Bush showed up about a half-hour late at the Cheyenne Municipal Airport on Friday evening, sporting a big smile and a baseball cap and toting a 12-inch trout. The president showed off his catch to the press and spectators as he crossed the tarmac to Air Force One, which took off around 6:40 p.m. for Washington. When asked how his fishing went, the president gave the ``thumbs up'' sign and said, ``Good.'' He then reached into a plastic garbage sack and grabbed the trout to show to the press. Bush, who'd been scheduled to arrive at the airport at 5:50 p.m. but didn't show up until around 6:20 p.m., spent about three hours fishing in the Middle Crow Creek west of Cheyenne with U.S. Sens. Al Simpson and Malcolm Wallop and Rep. Craig Thomas, all Wyoming Republicans. Simpson and Thomas said Bush's fish was the last, biggest catch of the day. They said the president appeared hesitant to leave for the airport until he caught a fish. The delegation accompanied the president to the airport, where Simpson opened a plastic garbage bag to show off the six other trout caught by the group. The president was in Cheyenne to help celebrate Wyoming's centennial, where he joined in a parade and gave a speech to thousands of spectators.
AP900215-0020 	X	Here is a complete list of nominees for the Academy Awards announced Wednesday. 1. PICTURE: ``Born on the Fourth of July,'' ``Dead Poets Society,'' ``Driving Miss Daisy,'' ``Field of Dreams,'' ``My Left Foot.'' 2. ACTOR: Kenneth Branagh, ``Henry V''; Tom Cruise, ``Born on the Fourth of July''; Daniel Day-Lewis, ``My Left Foot''; Morgan Freeman, ``Driving Miss Daisy''; Robin Williams, ``Dead Poets Society.'' 3. ACTRESS: Isabelle Adjani, ``Camille Claudel''; Pauline Collins, ``Shirley Valentine''; Jessica Lange, ``Music Box''; Michelle Pfeiffer, ``The Fabulous Baker Boys''; Jessica Tandy, ``Driving Miss Daisy.'' 4. SUPPORTING ACTOR: Danny Aiello, ``Do the Right Thing''; Dan Aykroyd, ``Driving Miss Daisy''; Marlon Brando, ``A Dry White Season''; Martin Landau, ``Crimes and Misdemeanors''; Denzel Washington, ``Glory.'' 5. SUPPORTING ACTRESS: Brenda Fricker, ``My Left Foot''; Anjelica Huston, ``Enemies, A Love Story''; Lena Olin, ``Enemies, A Love Story''; Julia Roberts, ``Steel Magnolias''; Dianne Wiest, ``Parenthood.'' 6. DIRECTOR: Oliver Stone, ``Born on the Fourth of July''; Woody Allen, ``Crimes and Misdemeanors''; Peter Weir, ``Dead Poets Society''; Kenneth Branagh, ``Henry V''; Jim Sheridan, ``My Left Foot.'' 7. ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY: Woody Allen, ``Crimes and Misdemeanors''; Tom Schulman, ``Dead Poets Society''; Spike Lee, ``Do the Right Thing''; Steven Soderbergh, ``sex, lies and videotape''; Nora Ephron, ``When Harry Met Sally ...'' 8. ADAPTED SCREENPLAY: Oliver Stone and Ron Kovic, ``Born on the Fourth of July''; Alfred Uhry, ``Driving Miss Daisy''; Roger L. Simon and Paul Mazursky, ``Enemies, A Love Story''; Phil Alden Robinson, ``Field of Dreams''; Jim Sheridan and Shane Connaughton, ``My Left Foot.'' 9. BEST FOREIGN FILM: ``Camille Claudel,'' France; ``Cinema Paradiso,'' Italy; ``Jesus of Montreal,'' Canada; ``Santiago, The Story of His New Life,'' Puerto Rico; ``Waltzing Regitze,'' Denmark. 10. ART DIRECTION: ``The Abyss,'' ``The Adventures of Baron Munchausen,'' ``Batman,'' ``Driving Miss Daisy,'' ``Glory.'' 11. CINEMATOGRAPHY: ``The Abyss,'' ``Blaze,'' ``Born on the Fourth of July,'' ``The Fabulous Baker Boys,'' ``Glory.'' 12. COSTUME DESIGN: ``The Adventures of Baron Munchausen,'' ``Driving Miss Daisy,'' ``Harlem Nights,'' ``Henry V,'' ``Valmont.'' 13. DOCUMENTARY FEATURE: ``Adam Clayton Powell,'' ``Common Threads: Stories from the Quilt,'' ``Crack USA: Country Under Siege,'' ``For All Mankind,'' ``Super Chief: The Life and Legacy of Earl Warren.'' 14. DOCUMENTARY SHORT SUBJECT: ``Fine Food, Fine Pastries, Open 6 to 9,'' ``The Johnstown Flood,'' ``Yad Vashem: Preserving the Past to Ensure the Future.'' 15. FILM EDITING: ``The Bear,'' ``Born on the Fourth of July,'' ``Driving Miss Daisy,'' ``The Fabulous Baker Boys,'' ``Glory.'' 16. MAKEUP: ``The Adventures of Baron Munchausen,'' ``Dad,'' ``Driving Miss Daisy.'' 17. MUSIC ORIGINAL SCORE: John Williams, ``Born on the Fourth of July''; David Grusin, ``The Fabulous Baker Boys''; James Horner, ``Field of Dreams''; John Williams, ``Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade''; Alan Menken, ``The Little Mermaid.'' 18. MUSIC ORIGINAL SONG: ``After All'' from ``Chances Are''; ``The Girl Who Used to Be Me'' from ``Shirley Valentine''; ``I Love to See You Smile'' from ``Parenthood''; ``Kiss The Girl'' from ``The Little Mermaid''; ``Under the Sea'' from ``The Little Mermaid.'' 19. ANIMATED SHORT FILM: ``Balance,'' ``Cow,'' ``The Hill Farm.'' 20. LIVE ACTION SHORT FILM: ``Amazon Diary,'' ``The Child Eater,'' ``Work Experience.'' 21. SOUND: ``The Abyss,'' ``Black Rain,'' ``Born on the Fourth of July,'' ``Glory,'' ``Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.'' 22. SOUND EFFECTS EDITING: ``Black Rain,'' ``Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade,'' ``Lethal Weapon 2.'' 23. VISUAL EFFECTS: ``The Abyss,'' ``The Adventures of Baron Munchausen,'' ``Back to the Future Part II.''
AP900201-0095 	X	The office that appeared to be a fencing operation for buying stolen goods and drugs was really an 18-month-long police sting that drew 135 suspects, officials say. About $1.3 million in stolen goods was purchased for $70,000 during the undercover operation run by several law agencies, officials said. Goods netted included 130 vehicles; more than $20,000 worth of jewelry; power tools; a pickup truck full of sportswear; appliances; about 100 firearms _including sawed-off shotguns, assault rifles and a hand grenade _ and a human eye. In all, 135 suspects were sought on state and federal charges, Tommy Wittman, agent in charge of the Salt Lake office of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms said at a news conference where many of the confiscated items were displayed. West Valley City Police Department spokeswoman Marsha Campbell said today that at least 62 people had been served warrants since officers began issuing them early Wednesday. Half of the suspects were already in custody on other charges. The sting was run by the West Valley City and Salt Lake City police departments and the federal ATF bureau, with assistance from other agencies. It operated out of two phony businesses _ Industrial Motor Repair in South Salt Lake and Damaged Freight Haulers in West Valley. A stolen Christmas tree was fenced during the holiday season, and undercover officers buying morphine from a nursing student also bought a human eye that had been taken from the University of Utah Medical Center. The agents bought $16,445 in heroin, morphine, cocaine, methamphetamine, valium and marijuana and learned the locations of six methamphetamine laboratories in the area, Wittman said. Sgt. Charles Illsley of the Major Felony Unit said 95 percent of the suspects were trading in stolen goods to obtain money for drugs. ``Three had `priors' for homicide. ... The worst one had 11 felony convictions,'' he said. U.S. Attorney Dee Benson said the probe's 26 federal indictments all involved narcotics and firearms charges. The sting was the third in the county since 1985. In August 1986, a similar operation resulted in the arrest of 24 people and the recovery of more than $500,000 in stolen goods. The second sting ended in January 1988 with the arrests of 50 people and the recovery of more than $400,000. West Valley Assistant Police Chief Terry Keefe said undercover officers became friendly with many suspects, sometimes were introduced to their families and in one case helped them move in the middle of the night. A female officer portraying a receptionist got a marriage proposal from one suspect. Wittman said the suspects were not entrapped. ``Enticement yes, probably. But not entrapment,'' Wittman said. ``These people had already stolen the property when they came to us. We did not provide shopping lists.''
AP880312-0139 	X	Federal investigators have concluded their four-day hearing into the cause of a Continental jet crash that killed 28 people, but their findings probably won't be released until sometime around the accident's first anniversary in November. ``We have not eliminated any issue'' in the suspected cause of the Nov. 15 crash of Flight 1713, board of inquiry chairman Joseph T. Nall said Friday after investigators heard the final testimony in the National Transportation Safety Board hearings. Flight 1713, bound for Boise, Idaho, began rocking violently moments after taking off from Stapleton International Airport during a snowstorm. It flipped over on its back and crashed on the runway, breaking into three pieces. Fifty-four of the 82 people on board survived. Some of those survivors were among the 33 witnesses who testified at the hearing. The NTSB investigators were looking into flight characteristics of the DC-9-10 aircraft, especially in snow and ice conditions; air traffic control; cold weather operations by Continental; turbulence; and Continental's pilot training, pilot selection and crew pairing. ``I anticipate our board will determine a probable cause and contributing causes to the crash'' by November, Nall said. The pilot and co-pilot, Capt. Frank Zvonek, 43, and First Officer Lee Bruecher, 26, both were killed in the crash. Bruecher was at the controls. The brief flying time in the DC-9 by both pilots has been one area of study by the investigation. Zvonek had 12,135 total hours flying time, with 33 hours as a DC-9 captain. Bruecher had a total of 3,186 hours, with 12 hours as a DC-9 first officer. At Friday's hearings, Richard Hillman, Continental vice president for flight operations, said that since the crash, the carrier had adopted a Federal Aviation Administration bulletin recommendation that the co-pilot not be allowed to make takeoffs or landings until he or she had 100 hours in that type of aircraft. The hearings also delved into Continental's use of a flight simulator in pilot training that is based on the DC-9-30 _ a different model of DC-9 from the ``Dash 10'' flown by Zvonek and Bruecher. The main difference between the two DC-9 models is the ``Dash 30'' has wing slats to improve the wing's lift. The Dash 10 is an older model with a wing design considered more susceptiable to loss of lift from ice buildup. James E. Madsen, Continental's assistant chief DC-9 pilot at Denver, minimized handling difference between the Dash 10 and Dash 30s in his testimony. ``A DC-9 is a DC-9. There are some differences they (pilots) should be aware of,'' Madsen said. Early theories of what caused Flight 1713 to roll violently and crash seconds after liftoff included ice buildup on the wings, turbulence from a jumbo jet that had just landed on a parallel runway 1,600 feet away, and pilot error. Continental's de-icing procedures at Stapleton also came under scrutiny. Flight 1713 waited between 24 and 27 minutes for takeoff after it had been de-iced. Survivors offered conflicting testimony on the amount of snow and ice buildup on the wings. ``I wondered at one point, `Is that ice?' But I decided it was just wet,'' said Dr. Fred Helpenstall of Nampa, Idaho, who suffered broken ribs in the crash. Airman Greg Wadsworth of Mountain Home Air Force Base in Idaho said he had a clear view of the wing before takeoff. ``It was like the snow was starting to pile up (on the wings). I was very concerned but I said it under my breath,'' he testified. Other testimony attributed Flight 1713's delay between de-icing and takeoff on miscommunciation in the control tower and between the tower and aircraft. NTSB investigators refused to speculate on any of the suspected causes. ``Our minds are still open. We will make no final conclusion until the time we make our final report,'' Nall said.
AP900912-0217 	X	James R. Mellor was elected Wednesday as president and chief operating officer of General Dynamics Corp., effective Jan. 1. Mellor, 60, is executive vice president of marine, land systems and international at General Dynamics corporate offices in St. Louis. He will succeed President and CEO Herbert F. Rogers, 65, who will continue on special assignment as general manager of the company's Fort Worth Division. Rogers will become vice chairman on Jan. 1. William A. Anders, General Dynamics' vice chairman, will succeed Stanley Pace as chairman and CEO when Pace retires at the end of the year. Mellor joined General Dynamics in 1981 as executive vice president of commercial systems and corporate planning and as a member of the board. Before joining General Dynamics he was president and chief operating officer of AM International Inc.
AP880321-0032 	X	Rising costs last year forced a record 79 hospitals to close their doors, the American Hospital Association reported today. The closings, most in hospitals with fewer than 100 beds, were heavy in four southern states but were evenly split overall between rural and urban areas, the hospital group said. ``Hospitals that barely break even or continually lose money cannot buy needed medical equipment, replace deteriorating buildings or add important services,'' Carol McCarthy, president of the Chicago-based organization, said in a statement. Federal Medicare payments, which represent 40 percent of a hospital's income, may be partly to blame for the closings, she added. ``Hospitals saw the price of goods and services they purchase rise 22 percent between 1984 and 1988 while Medicare raised the prices its pays hospitals ... only 11 percent,'' she said. Of the 79 hospitals that closed in 30 states, 35 were for-profit, 30 were non-profit and 14 were government-owned, the association said. Twenty-five hospitals closed in four states: Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas. Most of the closed hospitals ranged from 25 beds to 99. ``In the past year, nearly seven in 10 rural hospitals in this country lost money caring for patients, and 50 percent of urban hospitals operated in the red,'' Ms. McCarthy said. Jan Shulman, an AHA spokeswoman, said the 42 hospitals that closed in 1986 was the previous record. In addition to the 79 hospitals that shut down, 17 speciality outlets also closed in 13 states in 1987. Most were rehabilitation or long-term care centers, said the association.
AP900809-0225 	X	An attorney formerly with a prestigious corporate law firm was accused Thursday of selling inside information about planned takeovers in a multimillion-dollar trading scheme. The lawyer, Steven L. Glauberman, was charged with four counts of conspiracy, securities fraud and wire fraud in a criminal information brought by the U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan. Glauberman, 39, of Manhattan, was an associate at the firm, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, where he specialized in mergers and acquisitions. The government alleged he leaked inside information about clients involved in some of the best-known takeovers of the 1980s to a stock broker, who passed it along to others. Glauberman simultaneously settled a civil complaint by the Securities and Exchange Commission, agreeing to pay back $221,000 in his alleged illegal profits. The SEC said he tipped off Eban Smith, a former broker-dealer at the Stamford, Conn., office of Smith Barney & Co., to 29 planned or pending corporate transactions between 1984 and 1989. These included Bristol Meyers' 1985 bid for Genetic Systems, a management leveraged buyout of National Gypsum, also in 1985, Black and Decker's 1988 unsolicited bid for American Standard, Walt Disney Co.'s offer for Gibson Greetings, and K mart's bid for Payless Drugstore Stores Northwest Inc. The SEC said Smith paid Glauberman $50,000 for the information and also traded in a special account for Glauberman's benefit. Glauberman's attorney, Martin Perschetz, said he had no comment on behalf of his client. Smith, 41, of Greenwich, Conn., was charged in a separate criminal indictment with using the information he obtained from Glauberman to buy and sell securities for his own account and to solicit more business for his firm. In addition, two other investors who allegedly were tipped off by Smith were charged criminally with making trades based on the information from Glauberman. They are Peter H. Jeffer, 44, a Manhattan money manager, and Stanley P. Patrick, 43, of Old Lyme, Conn., a former stock trader. Jeffer Management Corp., a New York corporation created by Jeffer that stopped doing business in 1988, was also named in the indictment. Court papers said Smith, Jeffer and Patrick earned a total $3.75 million in illegal profits through the trades. The SEC said Smith's portion of profits was more than $1.1 million. Smith, Jeffer and Patrick also were named in the SEC civil complaint. Jeffer settled, but Smith and Patrick did not, meaning the commission is still trying to recover their alleged profits in the scheme. In addition, Glauberman's sister Lori, an associate director in the preferred stock department of Bear Stearns & Co., was accused by the SEC of trading in the securities of at least 11 of the deals. According to the SEC, without admitting or denying wrongdoing, Glauberman agreed to disgorge $221,098; his sister, Lori, 36, agreed to disgorge $19,135. Jeffer and his company would have been liable to disgorge $1.77 million but the SEC said that penalty was waived based on affidavits that they were unable to pay. A sixth defendant in the SEC complaint, Anthony Correra, 55, of Albuquerque, N.M., a former analyst and portfolio manager, will pay back $496,842.
AP881112-0074 	X	Heavyweight boxing champ Mike Tyson and actress Robin Givens have discussed dissolving their stormy nine-month marriage with a quick divorce in the Dominican Republic, Tyson's lawyer said. Tyson, 22, is eager to ``get on with his life,'' lawyer Howard Weitzman told the New York Post in Saturday's editions. Lawyers for Miss Givens, 23, and Tyson met Nov. 6 in Las Vegas to discuss the possibility of filing for a divorce on the Caribbean island, where divorces can be obtained in about two days, the newspaper reported. Weitzman said an offshore divorce would be quicker than the annulment request Tyson filed Oct. 14 in New Jersey, which could take a year to resolve. Tyson claimed that Miss Givens, an actress on the ABC-TV series ``Head of the Class,'' manipulated him into marriage by saying falsely that she was pregnant.
AP881219-0153 	X	George Bush met with television evangelist Jim Bakker at a time when he was gearing up for his presidential run against another TV preacher, Pat Robertson, but a Bush spokesman said Monday the vice president ``didn't ask for anything or promise anything.'' Comments by White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater and Bush's onetime press secretary Pete Teeley left some confusion over the purpose for the November 1985 meeting at Bakker's headquarters in Charlotte, N.C. Fitzwater, who attended the meeting, initially told a White House press briefing Monday that it was to seek support for Bush's forthcoming presidential race. But later he said he had misspoken and that the meeting was not political, but rather was in Bush's capacity as vice president _ ``a standard meeting of the kind that we had hundreds of. The vice president didn't ask for anything or promise anything.'' Fitzwater, who was Bush's vice presidential press secretary and will be White House press secretary when Bush takes office in January, made the comments at his daily briefing at the White House where he is currently President Reagan's spokesman. His account conflicted with that of Teeley, who at the time of the Bush-Bakker meeting was working as a marketing consultant for Bakker's PTL ministry. Teeley said Monday that Bush's meeting with Bakker was part of ``coalition building'' for the future presidential race and that the vice president met with many evangelical leaders for the same purpose, including the Rev. Billy Graham, the Rev. Jerry Falwell and the Rev. Robert Schuler. ``Those things were done every day. ... It didn't matter where you were _ Pittsburgh, Charlotte or Miami _ if you could meet with some people who were active politically, you tried to sit down and talk with them,'' Teeley said in telephone interview. Fitzwater, answering questions at Monday's briefing, initially had said Bush ``was seeking his support for the campaign, absolutely. ... You have hundreds of meetings like that when you're running for president.'' Later Fitzwater said that was not the correct characterization, that the only support Bush sought was for the Reagan administration's policies. In March 1987, Bakker stepped down from his PTL ministry, as his sexual involvement with former church secretary Jessica Hahn created headlines. At the time Bush met him, there had been no disclosure of such activity by Bakker. A report Sunday in The Washington Post contained an allegation by former Bakker bodyguard Don Hardister that Bush and Bakker talked about a possible admihistration job for Bakker. Asked about that report, Fitzwater told reporters, ``I don't know what Bakker thought. There was no talk of jobs or payoffs or anything else. It was a simple meeting as the vice president had with hundreds of other people and individuals asking their support ... asking his support for various policies and so forth. ``They talked about their Christian beliefs. They talked about the Robertson campaign. It was just a friendly discussion,'' Fitzwater told the briefing. Bush met with Bakker and his wife, Tammy Faye, in November 1985, as he was looking ahead to his race for the GOP presidential nomination. Eventually he defeated Robertson, host of the popular ``700 Club'' Christian television show, in the primaries. The Bush forces had been concerned about Robertson's unknown potential to pull votes from the religious right. Besides Bush's own meeting with Bakker, the vice president had three close associates whom Bakker hired as consultants: Teeley; Doug Weed, a sometime guest host on the ``700 Club'' who worked as a liaison for Bush's campaign with religious groups; and Dean Burch, former head of the Federal Communications Commission and the Republican National Committee. Weed currently works for the Bush presidential transition staff as a liaison with religious groups. Teeley, who acknowledged earning $120,000 for his PTL work, said his work for Bakker pertained to marketing and had no relation to Bush or politics.
AP900524-0214 	X	The nation's economy grew at a sluggish annual rate of 1.3 percent from January through March, far slower than previously believed, the government reported today. The Commerce Department said that the increase in the broadest measure of economic health _ the gross national product _ was much weaker than an initial estimate it made one month ago. At that time, it put GNP growth at a faster 2.1 percent rate. The weak growth was accompanied by a spurt in inflation as a price index tied to the GNP climbed at steep annual rate of 6.7 percent, the biggest inflationary surge in more than eight years. The increase was revised from an initial estimate of 6.5 percent. Although surprised by the size of the downward GNP revision, economists said they did not believe it indicated the country was in danger of toppling into a recession. They noted that the weakness came from a big reduction in the estimate of how much business inventories grew during the first three months of the year. Slower inventory growth was viewed as a favorable sign for future growth because it means businesses will have less of a backlog of unsold goods to work down before they can start ordering again. ``The first quarter was a time of major inventory correction and actually a healthy correction,'' said Allen Sinai, chief economist of the Boston Co. ``It was setting the economy up for sustained growth provided that sales stay up.'' The 1.3 percent first quarter GNP increase was only a slight improvement from a 1.1 percent GNP growth rate in the final three months of 1989. The growth rates in both quarters were the slowest since the summer of 1986 when the economy grew at a 0.8 percent annual rate. The inflation rate was the highest since it raced ahead at an annual rate of 7.7 percent in the final quarter of 1981. The GNP price guage rose 4.5 percent for all of 1989. Many economists expect inflation to moderate as the year progresses. They contend the first-quarter report was skewed by unusual winter weather that killed crops and drove up fuel prices. Indeed, Commerce said ``about one-half of the step-up was due to food and energy prices; large increases in January followed unusually cold weather in December.'' The growth rate was lowered today because of new information on business inventories, which were revised down $8.5 billion from the original report. The weaker economic growth means reduced tax revenues and adds to the problems confronting administration and congressional budget negotiators. Talks resume today on developing a formula to cut the deficit to the $64 billion mandated by the Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. Nevertheless, it was proof the current expansion, which began at the end of the last recession in November 1982, continued _ although slowly. A recession generally is defined as two straight declines in the GNP. The various changes means the GNP, after adjusting for inflation, totaled $4.188 trillion after the first three months of the year. ``The revision (in the GNP) was more than accounted for by change in business inventories,'' the department said. It said exports were revised up $9.9 billion, ``but this revision was largely offset in GNP by an upward revision of $9.0 billion in imports.'' In a companion report, the department said after-tax profits of U.S. corporations slowed to a 0.2 percent increase in the first quarter after rising 2.8 percent in the October-December period of 1989. Corporate profits had fallen during each of the first three quarters of last year, including a 1.1 percent drop during the comparable months of January through March. Surveys show that most economists believe overall growth during 1990 will total 2.0 percent, down from the 3.0 percent level of activity in 1989 and the slowest since activity declined 2.5 percent during the recession year of 1982. But many of the nation's top economic forecasters predict the economy will avoid a recession for another three years and are crediting Federal Reserve monetary policies for the extended growth. Sixty-three percent of the 68 professional forecasters responding to a survey by the National Association of Business Economists said they foresee no recession during the next three years. And 46 percent of those respondents said the primary reason for the economic expansion is ``effective monetary policy,'' James F. Smith, NABE president and professor of finance at the University of North Carolina, told a news conference earlier this week. The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee has tried for two years to stem inflation by keeping a tight grip on credit without slowing the economy so much that it skids into a recession.
AP880830-0002 	X	A military official said Tuesday that renegade soldiers loyal to ousted President Ferdinand Marcos have organized a new strike force to try to topple President Corazon Aquino. Col. Guilleromo Ruiz, chief of staff of the National Capital Region Defense Command, told reporters in the capital that the new group called itself ``Marcos Army Lost Command.'' Ruiz said the force was made up of troops who deserted the Presidential Security Command after Marcos fled to Hawaii after the 1986 civilian-military uprising toppled his administration. ``Lost Command'' is a Filipino term for military units which desert and hire out as ``private armies'' of politicians, businessmen and others. Military officials gave no estimate of the size of the group. They said the renegades were believed linked to forces loyal to renegade former Lt. Col. Reynaldo Cabauatan, who has been sought since a coup attempt in January 1987. Troops in the Manila area went on alert Saturday to guard against coup attempts while President Aquino visited Brunei. She was expected to return Wednesday after a three-day visit. On Monday, troops raided suspected right-wing hideouts in the Manila area and arrested three renegades believed linked to former Brig. Gen. Jose Marie Zumel. The former superintendent of the Philippine Military Academy is also sought in the January 1987 coup attempt. The government said that coup attempt, which included the seizing of military and media facilities in the capital, was designed to pave the way for Marcos to return from exile in Hawaii.
AP881222-0232 	X	In the two decades since an Army ammunition depot closed and stripped this town of more than 500 jobs, Edgemont has tried to find another healthy payroll, even courting a string of potentially hazardous industries. A uranium mining and milling operation succeeded for a while, then closed. Town leaders also wooed companies that proposed a low-level nuclear waste dump, a sewage ash processing plant, a munitions testing site and, most recently, a landfill for municipal waste from Northeastern cities. For various reasons, including opposition from environmental groups, all the proposals failed. A farmer raised pigs on the base for a time but recently pulled out because of falling pork prices. ``We need more jobs, and we're still looking,'' Mayor Pete Ziemet said. ``The only thing we have going for us, which I guess is both bad and good, is the notoriety Edgemont has had.'' Other civic leaders fear they may never find the industry needed to fill the empty houses and stores in this town sitting on the southern edge of the Black Hills, where pine-covered mountains give way to rough grasslands covered with sagebrush and yucca plants. ``Everything just seemed to go haywire. ... Just little by little, everything went wrong,'' said former Mayor Matt Brown. ``I've been here all my life, and so help me God, I can't put my finger on anything that will salvage the town. Maybe we can be lucky.'' A Defense Department survey of 100 communities that lost military bases from 1961 to 1977 reported that some towns prospered by converting the bases to other uses. But Edgemont is one of the places that has never recovered after the military left town. The Black Hills Army Depot, which stored ammunition in concrete bunkers at a place called Igloo eight miles south of Edgemont, was opened in the 1940s and closed in 1967. Brown said Edgemont not only lost 500-odd civilian jobs but also many long-time Edgemont residents who were transferred to civilian jobs at other military bases. Four local businessmen bought the 15,000-acre base to prepare it for other uses, but it still lies empty. Rows of concrete igloos sit like loaves of bread on the prairie. Near the base entrance, houses and administrative buildings are falling apart. Edgemont's population grew to 1,772 by 1960, but fell to less than 1,200 within a few years of the base's closing. The town's economy and population recovered in the 1970s, with the uranium mill and a Burlington Northern Railroad crew-shift station both busy. Ziemet estimates Edgemont now has only 1,130 people, a drop of about 20 percent since 1980. The mayor said 70 houses out of several hundred in town are empty, and 27 should be razed because they're falling apart. People trying to sell homes will be lucky to get 50 cents on the dollar, he said. The railroad is still a bright spot in the local economy. Burlington Northern switches crews at Edgemont and provides a good national connection, Ziemet said. The uranium operation closed due to lack of demand, and the 110 people now cleaning up uranium tailings will be out of work when the cleanup is completed next year, he said. City and state officials have provided financing to help re-open a factory that makes wooden bowls and other items from walnut, and the plant should employ up to 30 people. But the town has yet to find an industrial use for the abandoned ammunition depot. Cattle are grazed on the base, but an operation that raised hogs in the concrete igloos has been stopped at least temporarily. A plan to use the igloos for grain storage also washed out, Ziemet said. In 1983, Chem-Nuclear Systems Inc. proposed burying up to one-third of the nation's low-level nuclear waste at the base. The plan was scrapped after geological tests showed the site was unsuitable, and state voters rejected a proposed multi-state compact that would have allowed the dump. Consolidated Management Corp. of Reno, Nev., last year hauled almost 300,000 tons of incinerated sewage from St. Paul, Minn., to the old base, where the company planned to build a plant to extract gold and other precious metals from the ash. The company missed several deadlines to start the plant, however, and the state now is searching for a way to dispose of the ash. Honeywell Inc. wanted to set up a munitions testing operation in a canyon near Edgemont but abandoned the plan after a coalition of Indians and others opposed it. Edgemont now is working with South Dakota Disposal Systems Inc., headquartered in Colorado, on a plan to bury 1 million tons of municipal garbage a year. Edgemont could get more than $1 million a year from the plan, which also would create up to 50 jobs, company officials have said. The succession of proposals dealing with hazardous materials has angered some local residents and environmental groups across South Dakota. Ruth Kern, who lives on a ranch south of town and opposes all the waste disposal ideas, said Edgemont is gaining a reputation as a place willing to become the nation's dumping ground. Kern said residents are partly responsible for the base closing 20 years ago because they complained all the time and didn't want the ``riffraff'' from the base in town. She criticized Edgemont officials for seeking hazardous dumps that she said wouldn't provide enough jobs to save the town in any event. ``I don't want to see it go under, but neither can I support it when they want to do something to pollute my environment,'' Kern said. ``I'm tired of having everybody in the United States look at us as someplace they can bring in stuff to dump.'' Kern's stance has drawn criticism from townspeople who want jobs, whatever the industry. Brown is upset that environmental groups have been able to block virtually all the town's industrial proposals. ``For some reason, we can't seem to whip it,'' he said. ``I'd like to win one for a change.'' Ziemet, who's been mayor for the past decade, said he wouldn't support any industry that would contaminate ground, air or water, but he believes state and federal officials can make sure the proposed garbage dump is operated safely. Some of the national publicity has upset Ziemet and others. A recent Wall Street Journal story said the state and town acted too hastily when they allowed the Minnesota sewage ash to be hauled to the abandoned base. Ziemet said no one could know the company would run out of money before it built the processing plant, which he said would have been an environmentalist's dream had it succeeded in tranforming sewage into worthwhile products. He compared the town's situation to someone without a job. No one would criticize the person for taking a job on a garbage truck, he said. ``All we want is a job,'' he repeated. ``I believe something is going to come.''
AP881129-0260 	X	The value of U.S. farm exports should increase slightly to $36.5 billion this year but the volume of sales will fall about 8 percent lagely because of last summer's drought, the Agriculture Department reported Tuesday. Export values are predicted to grow by $1 billion in fiscal 1989, while volume will drop to 136 million metric tons, down from a six-year high of 147.5 million metric tons in the year ended Sept. 30, according to Richard W. Goldberg, acting undersecretary of agriculture for international affairs and commodity programs. Goldberg delivered what he described as a ``bright'' agricultural trade forecast at the opening session of USDA's Agricultural Outlook Conference, an annual event in which government analysts outline prospects for the coming year for farmers and agribusiness. ``Export volume is forecast smaller as the U.S. share of world trade shrinks for drought-affected products,'' Goldberg said. Overall, the United States is expected to account for 48 percent of world total grain trade in 1989, down from 50 percent. One of the hardest hit commodities is soybeans, with the U.S. share of world soybean trade forecast to drop to 35 percent in 1989 from 49 percent. Although the U.S. share of world wheat trade is expected to show a small gain in 1989, the volume of American wheat and flour exports is forecast to fall by about 3 percent while corn exports should grow by 2 percent, said James R. Donald, chairman of the World Agricultural Outlook Board. In general, farm prices are rising because of lower global grain stocks, mostly from the drought in North America, and Goldberg said world prices for wheat, corn and soybeans should be their highest since 1985. Goldberg said a $2.6 billion increase in the value of U.S. grain and feed exports will offset declines for cotton and oilseeds in 1989. ``For U.S. agriculture, the challenge in the coming year will be to sustain the momentum in overseas sales which has been regained over the past few years,'' Goldberg said. ``This will require more competitive prices, aggressive market development, persistent trade policy efforts and a market-oriented trade philosophy.'' Donald reported that U.S. farmers probably will receive less cash income but higher net income next year in the aftermath of the summer drought. Consumers are expected to pay 3 percent to 5 percent more for food in 1989, compared with about a 4 percent increase this year. Smaller crop supplies, firm demand and higher prices are shaping the global agricultural outlook for 1989, according to Donald. Expanded output appears likely in the second half of 1989, and he said continued large supplies of animal products probably will dampen livestock price increases. Still, American farmers can expect slightly higher receipts when they market their crops and livestock in 1989, Donald said. ``But they will be getting less in direct government payments and their production expenses will rise with expanded acreage and costlier production inputs,'' Donald said. Cash income therefore is likely to decline by about 10 percent from this year's record-tying estimated level of $56 billion to $58 billion, he said. In contrast, Donald said, net farm income is expected to about 20 percent above this year's estimated level of $38 billion to $40 billion. ``The 1989 outlook favors the food shopper, even though the drought trimmed potential meat output,'' Donald said. He said meat supplies would be the second largest ever, boosted by sizable pork supplies and even greater poultry supplies.
AP880818-0239 	X	Democrat Michael Dukakis on Wednesday criticized Republicans for using their convention for ``a trip down memory lane'' while ignoring GOP policies that have hurt American families and failed to help economically depressed regions. Dukakis, during a lakefront rally on Minnesota's Iron Range, also touted the qualifications of his running mate, Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, and implied that Indiana Sen. Dan Quayle, the certain Republican vice presidential nominee, was not qualified to be president. ``Nobody ever asked any questions about whether Lloyd Bentsen was qualified to be president of the United States,'' Dukakis said a day after George Bush tapped Quayle, a 41-year-old conservative, to fill out the Repubican ticket. Dukakis told the rally the Republicans were using their convention in New Orleans to celebrate the Reagan presidency because they did not want to discuss rising interest rates, the soaring trade and budget deficits and economic distress in the Midwest and other parts of the country. ``The Republican Party has been celebrating the past,'' he said. ``When you think about what's going to happen to them in November, you can't blame them. ``While they're partying on Bourbon Street, we're talking to people on Main Street,'' Dukakis said. ``While they're talking about labels, we're talking about jobs. While they take a trip down Memory Lane, we're looking to the future.'' In Boston, the Massachusetts governor's campaign office issued a statement saying Dukakis was saddened by the plane crash that claimed the lives of Pakistani President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Arnold L. Raphel and 35 others. ``President Zia will be remembered for his steadfast opposition to the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and for ensuring that 3 million Afghans had a place of refuge in Pakistan,'' Dukakis said in the statement. Dukakis, on the first day of a four-day campaign trip designed to help him steal some of the spotlight from the GOP gathering, went to great lengths to praise Bentsen, 67. Referring to legislation to give workers 60 days' notice before a plant closing, Dukakis told the rally: ``We've got to have a vice president who led the fight and didn't oppose the fight.'' Quayle opposed the plant-closing measure, along with Reagan and Bush. Reagan allowed it to became law without his signature. At a news conference after the rally, Dukakis used praise of Bentsen to criticize Quayle. ``I think Senator Bentsen is a tremendous asset to me and to the Democratic ticket because he is so steady and so mature and has demonstrated a capacity for leadership,'' Dukakis said. The Democratic nominee said ``that's a judgment the American people are going to have to make'' when asked if he thought Quayle was qualified to step in as president in the event of a tragedy. But he then left little doubt about his true feelings. ``I would just point out that nobody ever asked any questions about whether Lloyd Bentsen would be qualified to be president of the United States,'' the Massachusetts governor said. He cited Bentsen's leadership in winning passage of the plant-closing law, a major trade bill, welfare reform and catastrophic health care legislation, something Dukakis referred to as a ``legislative grand slam.'' Among those appearing at the rally with Dukakis were former Vice President Walter Mondale, Rep. James Oberstar and Hubert H. ``Skip'' Humphrey III, Minnesota attorney general and Senate candidate. Dukakis used the event to reiterate his support for Oberstar's National Economic Development Act, which would create a fund to invest in economically weak areas of the country. Dukakis has endorsed spending $500 million on such a program. ``Prosperity in some places and depression in others is not acceptable,'' said Dukakis, who earlier had mentioned the loss of 8,000 jobs on the Iron Range in the last 10 years. ``That's something the Republican Party might want to take a look at.'' The rally was interrupted for several minutes when an anti-abortion protester screamed, ``What about the unborn'' into an amplified bullhorn. ``Here's someone who wants to debate,'' Dukakis said as a Secret Service agent and several people at the rally forcibly removed the man from the crowd. ``Maybe we can get the vice president to debate.'' From the Iron Range, Dukakis flew to Minneapolis for a private fund-raiser for the Democratic National Committee and then was headed to Miami, where he was to spend the night before addressing a Greek-American organization's convention. Other stops on his trip this week include Alabama, Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas, Texas and Tennessee. He returns to Boston on Saturday night.
AP881102-0111 	X	A British soldier has died of injuries suffered at the Ramstein air show disaster on Aug. 28, bringing the death toll to 70, officials said Wednesday. The 40-year-old soldier, who was not identified, died over the weekend in a hospital in Hanover, said Juergen Dietzen, a spokesman for the Interior Ministry of Rhineland Palatinate state. Dietzen said 24 people remain hospitalized in 10 facilities, and four are in critical condition. The accident occurred when three Italian stunt planes collided at an annual air show at the Ramstein U.S. Air Force base. One of the planes plunged into the crowd. Authorities gave the following nationality breakdown for the dead: 60 West Germans, four Americans, one Dutch citizen, one French citizen, the British soldier and the three Italian pilots.
AP881025-0118 	X	The Soviet Union is seeking a deal with the Philippines to allow repair of Soviet military vessels at a shipyard adjacent to the strategic U.S. naval base at Subic Bay, government officials say. Dan Howard, the Pentagon's chief spokesman, said Tuesday the United States ``would not look favorably'' on any such arrangement because of ``the opportunities it might afford the Soviets to spy on our activities at Subic Bay.'' ``The Philippine government is well aware of our feelings on that,'' he said. At the same time, Howard said he could not confirm that negotiations between the Filipinos and the Soviets were taking place. There were conflicting reports Tuesday about the status of the reported Soviet request. One official said a deal between the two countries had already been signed, while another that the Philippines was ``tempted'' by the offer but had made no decision. A third official said there was considerable confusion about the intentions of both the Soviets and the Philippines. All the officials asked that their names not be used. The Philippines has rejected previous Soviet requests for access to the Philseco repair yard. But economic and political factors appear to be prompting it to reassess that position, the officials said. The Philseco yard, a joint venture between Philippine and Japanese interests, has been losing money. In addition, the new Soviet proposal comes at a time when many Filipinos are seeking a relationship more independent of the United States. But the officials said close Soviet access to Subic Bay would not only be an intelligence-gathering bonus for Moscow but would also enable Soviet vessels to remain longer in the region, thus enhancing the Soviets' military capability, the officials said. The desire for ship repair facilities apparently reflects a major Soviet military buildup in the Pacific in recent years. According to the Pentagon, the Kremlin has increased the number of ships and submarines in its Pacific fleet by 40 vessels to a total of 860 since the end of 1984. Approval of the Soviet proposal also would be seen as further evidence of the Philippines' desire to dissociate itself from the United States. A more independent Filipino stance was apparent during recent base negotiations with the United States, which frequently were marked by bitter acrimony. A week ago, the two countries signed an agreement to provide the Philippines with $962 million in military and economic aid over the next two years in exchange for continued U.S. access to Subic and to Clark Air Base. They are the largest U.S. military installations overseas. As a reflection of the continuing strain in relations, both the Philippines and the United States have left open the possibility that their 1947 base agreement will not be renewed when it expires in 1991. Reaction in the Philippines to the aid agreement has been hostile, partly because Filipino negotiators backed away from their original demand for more than $1 billion annually in assistance. Still, the $481 million in annual aid agreed to for 1990 and 1991 represented a sharp increase from the $180 million the United States had been pledging since 1983. As U.S. officials see it, Philippine President Corazon Aquino could seek to placate opposition to the aid agreement by approving the Soviet request for a ship repair deal at Philseco.
AP880718-0037 	X	Four U.S. soldiers were recovering today from wounds sustained when a carload of men hurled bombs and fired guns at a group of off-duty American servicemen in a discotheque parking lot, officials said. Authorities had no suspects and were ``intensively investigating'' the attack early Sunday outside the Confetti disco in San Pedro Sula, said a police official who spoke on condition of anonymity. U.S. Embassy spokesman Charles Barclay said no group had claimed responsibility for the attack, which occurred at about 1 a.m. in Honduras' second-largest city. Barclay, in a telephone interview, said the four soldiers wounded in the attack were hospitalized in satisfactory condition. Embassy officials refused to identify them until their families were notified. A U.S. official, speaking on condition he not be identified, said the wounded men ``were out of danger.'' He did not elaborate. The soldiers were on leave from Palmerola Air Force Base, 41 miles northeast of the capital of Tegucigalpa, and were in civilian clothes and carrying no weapons at the time of the attack, Barclay said. ``The American soldiers were on a one-day recreation trip to San Pedro Sula,'' he said. They were leaving the nightspot's parking lot in a civilian vehicle rented from a Honduran company when the attackers threw small bombs and opened fire from inside another car in the parking lot, U.S. officials said. The vehicle with the soldiers immediately sped away. ``The attackers threw explosive bombs and shot at them with small-caliber weapons,'' Barclay said. In Washington, Pentagon spokeswoman Maj. Kathy Wood said nine soldiers were attacked as they drove out of the discotheque's parking lot. She said there were 10 or 12 attackers. ``I guess if there's a hero in this, it's the driver,'' Wood said. ``He took evasive action. He drove away fast. He did things right.'' The driver's name was not available. The Confetti disco is frequented by U.S. military personnel. San Pedro Sula, is 125 miles north of the capital. The injured were taken to a hospital in San Pedro Sula and later flown to Palmerola. Maj. Wood said about 150 soldiers were on the one-day leave and that all returned to Palmerola as a precautionary measure. The United States has maintained a varying numbers of American troops in Honduras since the leftist Sandinistas seized power in neighboring Nicaragua in 1979. At least 30 American troops in Honduras have been killed or wounded in accidents or incidents of violence since the United States began joint military maneuvers with the Honduran military in 1982. Ten soldiers were injured in a helicopter crash during the deployment of about 1,500 American troops to Honduras in March following a reported incursion by Nicaraguan troops into Honduras. In August 1987, a pipe bomb exploded at a restaurant in Comayagua, 12 miles north of Palmerola, seriously injuring five U.S. soldiers and six civilians, including one American. The Honduran military said four suspects picked up in connection with that bombing told them the attack was part of a campaign directed by a ``foreign leftist organization.'' A wave of anti-American protests broke out in April following the deportation to the United States of a reputed international drug baron. Juan Ramon Matta, 43, was taken to the United States to face drug trafficking charges and questioning for the 1986 slaying in Mexico of U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agent Enrique Camarena. The Honduran constitution forbids the deportation of Honduran nationals. Demonstrators burned the U.S. Consulate and U.S. Information Service office in the capital to protest Matta's deportation and the U.S. military presence in Honduras. The violence prompted the government to temporarily impose a state of emergency restricting civil liberties.
AP880324-0259 	X	Neil Kinnock, leader of Britain's opposition Labor Party, will be challenged for the post by veteran leftist Tony Benn at the party conference in the fall, a Labor coalition said Wednesday. The Campaign Group, composed of about 40 leftist party lawmakers, said Kinnock's deputy, moderate Roy Hattersley, will be challenged by leftist Eric Heffer. The announcement came after a meeting of the party's national executive committee. Kinnock, 46, and Hattersley are considered not as left wing as Benn and Heffer. Benn, 62, a former Cabinet minister, has accused Kinnock of watering down socialism after the party's three defeats in nine years by the Conservative Party of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Kinnock and Hattersley have worked for a united party and cracked down on militants in hopes of making a broader appeal to voters. They say a leadership contest will distract the party from opposing the government. Kinnock and Hattersley denounced the challenge in a joint statement as ``futile and selfish'' and predicted ``massive defeat'' for Benn and Heffer. Benn told reporters: ``Democracy is about choice.'' Heffer said: ``The time has come for a crusade for socialism. The working people of this country are getting a worse and worse deal.''
AP881206-0073 	X	A new wave of strikes has hit this communist nation, and thousands of shoe workers marched on Parliament today in heavy rain to protest the plummeting living standards. A triple cordon of police officers guarded the doors of the Parliament building as about 3,000 shoe workers, mostly female, chanted: ``You are afraid of women, shame on you!'' and ``Thieves, Thieves!'' At the Labin coal pits, 148 miles southwest of Zagreb, about 1,000 miners stopped working Monday to demand payment of a bonus for having fulfilled the annual production quota one month ahead of schedule, Belgrade newspapers reported. Also Monday, several hundred workers at the Bor copper mines, about 90 miles southwest of Belgrade, staged a brief work stoppage for the same reason as the Labin miners, newspapers reported. More than 3,000 employees of a fertilizer factory in Sabac, about 50 miles west of Belgrade, staged a street protest Monday, accusing municipal Communist Party leaders of inefficiency and dishonesty. As a result of the protest, the entire municipal leadership was replaced, press reports said. In Belgrade, a total of about 7,000 shoe workers went on strike today. About 3,000 of them marched almost 3 miles in the rain to reach the Parliament building, chanting anti-government slogans and demanding salary raises. ``We want proper wages, don't torment us!'' the crowd chanted, pressing against the police cordon. After several hours, the workers were allowed to enter Parliament, where they spoke with party officials. ``I can't feed myself and my children with $45 a month,'' Gvozdenka Pavlovic said. The average Yugoslav salary is about $100 a month. The demonstrators dispersed peacefully after Serbian Communist Party leader Slobodoan Milosevic promised he would visit their factory. Yugoslavia is facing increasing social and labor unrest as a result of the worst economic crisis in the country's postwar history, including a 236 percent annual inflation rate and a $21 billion foreign debt. According to official figures, workers' buying power has declined by 25 percent since the beginning of this year and living standards have dropped to 1960s levels. In the past 10 months, there have been more than 1,000 strikes, many of them involving street demonstrations, the government said. Official Belgrade trade unions today called on citizens to refuse to pay electricity bills if the latest 31 percent price raise was not canceled. News reports said about one-fourth of Belgrade's 2 million people have been unable to pay their electricity, water and heating bills. According to the reports, power companies have begun cutting off supplies in an effort to force people to pay. State-run newspapers said railroad workers in the capital said they would stage a strike Wednesday if their salaries were not raised by 50 percent. The strike would paralyze all rail traffic coming in and going out of the capital.
AP880408-0010 	X	Independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh is being attacked in opposite directions by the Iran-Contra defendants, with one claiming he improperly ignored congressional testimony and the other three saying he illegally used it. Attorneys representing former national security adviser John M. Poindexter, Lt. Col. Oliver L. North and arms dealer Albert Hakim moved Thursday to dismiss the indictment against them, claiming Walsh illegally relied on testimony the three gave last year to the Iran-Contra congressional committees after being granted limited immunity. Because of the immunity grants, Walsh was required to collect all of his evidence independently. North, Piondexter and Hakim claim that, given the massive publicity surrounding the hearings, Walsh's case was inevitably tainted by exposure to their immunized _ regardless of efforts to insulate investigators and grand jurors from that evidence. But lawyers for retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard V. Secord, the fourth defendant, claim that Walsh unfairly ignored the congressional testimony of North and Poindexter. They say that testimony would have led the grand jury to decline to name their client in the 23-count indictment. Secord, who brokered the arms sales with Hakim, was the lead witness at last year's televised hearings of the House and Senate Iran-Contra committees and testified without any immunity. All four defendants are accused of conspiring to divert profits illegally from the U.S.-Iran arms sales to the Nicaraguan rebels. The so-called ``use immunity'' grants conferred by Congress on North, Poindexter and Hakim prohibit Walsh from using evidence obtained directly or indirectly from their congressional testimony. Walsh imposed special precautions to prevent his staff and the grand jury from being exposed to the extensive publicity surrounding the hearings. Prosecutors and grand jurors alike were told to ignore news reports or conversations with friends about the hearings. Evidence was filed under seal in U.S. District Court to prove that it was obtained independently of the immunized testimony. But in pleadings filed with U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell, lawyers for North, Poindexter and Hakim said those precautions were not enough. ``Never in the history of this nation has the immunized testimony of putative defendants been broadcast live, on all major networks, to tens of millions of viewers and listeners,'' the defense said. ``Given the widespread dissemination of immunized testimony throughout our society, the broad use of immunized testimony has been inevitable, undeniable, and so pervasive that the indictment must be dismissed as a matter of law,'' the defense argued. As an alternative to dismissing the charges, the defense asked Gesell to conduct a hearing to determine if immunized congressional testimony influenced Walsh's investigation. The defense says it wants to question grand jurors to determine if they learned about the congressional hearings from friends, relatives or news broadcasts or from grand jury witnesses. Secord's lawyers are taking a different course. They contend that Walsh unfairly refused to consider the congressional testimony of North and Poindexter, which they contend would vindicate their client of any wrongdoing. The grand jury should have had an opportunity to consider this testimony before returning an indictment against Secord, his lawyers said. ``The independent counsel's decision to exalt prosecutorial convenience above General Secord's Fifth Amendment right to a fair and informed grand jury taints the proceedings against him and requires, as a matter of fundamental fairness, that the indictment be dismissed,'' Secord's lawyers said. Gesell has scheduled a hearing next Tuesday to discuss the immunity issue, which could take months to resolve.
AP880701-0044 	X	A former postman who pleaded guilty to stealing $2.50 from an envelope should be ordered to clean up his neighborhood with a ``broom, dustbin and plastic sack,'' a federal judge recommended. U.S. District Judge Thomas A. Higgins on Thursday also ordered Leon Watson, 33, to repay $315 that a January indictment charged he removed from envelopes carried on his route. Watson pleaded guilty to one count in a plea bargain calling for a maximum prison sentence of three years. That count charged him with stealing $2.50 from an envelope planted in a mailbox by U.S. Postal Service officials, who became suspicious of Watson after residents complained that they had received envelopes that were supposed to contain money but did not. ``I want Mr. Watson to become a custodian,'' Higgins said. ``He should be given a broom, dustbin and plastic sack and be made to keep good and clean'' parks and other public property near his home as community service work, the judge said. Higgins also ordered Watson to perform 300 hours of community service work and gave him a three-year suspended sentence.
AP901115-0213 	X	The newest gadgets that box, sort, tape and buffer are on display at a packaging industry trade show that looks grass-green in its support of sound environmental policies. ``It's the environmental revolution,'' said Craig Todd, district manager of Better Packages. ``Everybody's gotten on the bandwagon.'' Better Packages isn't offering a new product at the show but is exhibiting new packaging for its old products. The Shelton, Conn., company's tape machines, which use glue rather than adhesives which don't decompose, ``just happen to be the right thing at the right time,'' Todd said. More than 55,000 people were on hand Wednesday for the packaging industry's Pack Expo, which ends Friday at McCormick Place. Dozens of this year's 900 exhibitors included environmentally sensible products, which ran from mailing envelopes made of recycled materials to packaging ``peanuts'' made nearly entirely of cornstarch. The new ``peanuts,'' manufactured by American Excelsior Co. of Arlington, Texas, will give the environmentally conscious consumer an alternative to the standard polystyrene packaging peanut, the company said. The product, called Eco-Foam, is more than 95 percent cornstarch, and the rest is a water-soluble organic polymer, said Robert Asselin of National Starch and Chemical Co. of Bridgewater N.J. It handles the peanuts' production for American Excelsior. The product dissolves in water and is safe enough to eat, said Asselin, who did just that while chatting with a reporter. American Excelsior will keep making polystyrene peanuts, said company Vice President Ken Starrett. ``We've serviced this market for about 30 years or more,'' said Starrett. ``We're not competing with ourselves, and we don't see a conflict by making both products. Eco-Foam is still the newcomer to the market.'' Some companies said thir customers aren't fully converted to the idea that environmentally sound is best. ``They'll buy it if the cost is the same and the quality's the same. But if the price is higher or the quality's affected, forget it,'' said Peter Dauphinais, whose company, Polyair Corp., introduced ``Eco-Lite'' mailing envelopes this year. The envelopes are made from 100 percent recycled paper and plastic and, while they cost the same as non-recycled, they're less strong, said Dauphinais, sales man for the Toronto company. Cantech Industries Inc., of Johnson City, Tenn., introduced a new unbleached masking tape at the show. The new tape is free of caustic chemicals used in other tape manufacture but is not quite as white as its bleached counterpart, said Cantech's Jim Petruzzi. Petruzzi said manufacturers tend to have a natural inclination toward packaging materials which are the newest and white-est of whites - a tendency that dies hard. ``You spend your whole life on making things look good, then environmental issues come up,'' said Petruzzi. ``Not that they're not good issues.''
AP880706-0138 	X	A leading Soviet Bible scholar said Wednesday a Soviet magazine plans to serialize the New Testament in an effort to boost its sales. ``At first, I was shaken by such an indecency,'' said Sergei S. Averintzev, ``but then I thought, it's good.'' Averintzev, 61, said he was commissioned to write footnotes to the New Testament, which is to be published in the magazine In the World of Books. He said a Soviet publishing house also was preparing a book edition of the New Testament with his notes. The scholar, who is in Israel with a delegation of Soviet filmmakers, is a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences and has written books and articles on ancient Greek and Byzantine culture and the Bible. In a lecture at Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Averintzev said said the magazine wanted to print the New Testament ``to enlarge its circulation.''
AP880223-0242 	X	Campeau Corp. has extended until midnight Friday its $66-a-share offer for a friendly merger with Federated Department Stores Inc. Meanwhile, a federal judge Monday threw out an Ohio anti-takeover law enacted to protect Federated from the Toronto-based developer. Campeau said in a statement Monday that without a friendly merger it would continue its hostile tender offer at $61 a share, or $5.4 billion. The friendly offer, which previously expired Sunday, totals $5.8 billion. A Federated representative had no comment on the renewed offer. The Cincinnati-based retailer twice last week rejected the $66-a-share bid, saying Campeau had not shown it had adequate financing. Federated's board has delayed implementing a company shareholder-rights plan until midnight Thursday. The rights plan, a so-called ``poison pill'' defense, is designed to make a hostile takeover too expensive. A Campeau representative said the retail and real estate company was renewing its offer ``to remind (Federated's) board we're very interested in signing a transaction.'' At the same time, Chief U.S. District Court Judge Carl B. Rubin ruled unconstitutional the state's anti-takeover law enacted Feb. 12. Federated had no comment when asked if an appeal was planned. Rubin said that while states have a role in the regulation of commerce, the new law ``is discriminatory on its face.'' The act required that certain foreign businesses attempting to acquire companies with major operations in Ohio inform the state of the acquisition's impact on employment, tax revenues and details of its financing.
AP880716-0141 	X	An encouraging report on the U.S. trade deficit has helped catapult the dollar to recent highs against several key foreign currencies. The Commerce Department reported Friday that the United States posted a $10.9 billion trade deficit in May, the second smallest shortfall in almost three years. The news helped the dollar make its best showing since October against the British pound. The pound finished at $1.6605 in late New York trading, far cheaper than Thursday's $1.6875. The dollar's surge lifted bond prices, pushing interest rates lower. The yield on the Treasury's closely watched 30-year bond slipped to 9.14 percent from 9.17 percent late Thursday. The favorable trade news also sparked a moderate gain in stock prices on Wall Street. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 15.83 points to 2,129.45, finishing the week with a net gain of 23.30. In another key economic report, the Labor Department said wholesale prices rose a moderate 0.4 percent in June _ but analysts saw cause for worry in the steep, drought-induced climb in raw food prices. The hot, dry weather searing much of the nation sent prices of unprocessed grain and poultry soaring by more than 20 percent last month, pushing raw food prices 4.2 percent higher than in May. It was the biggest jump since October 1985. Grain futures closed mixed while soybeans posted strong gains on the Chicago Board of Trade amid conflicting weather forecasts for the drought-stricken Farm Belt. In other economic developments Friday: _The Federal Reserve reported that U.S. industrial production, boosted by heavy demand for electricity during the summer heat wave, climbed 0.4 percent in June, the ninth consecutive month without a decline. _The Commerce Department said business inventories climbed in May for the 17th consecutive month. Sales also rose strongly, easing economists' worries that too many goods are accumulating on shelves and back lots. The Reagan administration and private economists were in agreement that the May trade report offered conclusive proof that the government's efforts to deal with one of the country's biggest economic problems, a seemingly intractable trade deficit, were beginning to show results. The May deficit was actually $627 million higher than a revised April imbalance of $10.3 billion. But the April figure was the smallest imbalance since a $9.9 billion deficit in August 1985 and the May deficit was the second smallest imbalance since that time. Commerce Secretary C. William Verity noted that for the first five months of this year, U.S. exports have surged by 31 percent compared with the same period in 1987, reflecting the boom conditions in the nation's manufacturing brought on by the weaker dollar. ``The merchandise trade figures for May are consistent with the trend toward a lower trade deficit,'' Verity said. ``The improvement in the trade balance in the first five months has been widespread geographically.'' The administration launched an effort three years ago with major U.S. allies to devalue the dollar as a way of making American goods more competitive on overseas markets.
AP881103-0133 	X	Three contestants in the Mrs. America pageant have complained about being given a survey to fill out on their love lives. According to Mrs. Alabama Diane Gamble, Mrs. Wisconsin Gale Coleman and Mrs. North Carolina Connie Hedrick, the survey included such questions as ``Can you be in love with two men at the same time?'' and ``Outside of the bedroom, where is the most unusual place you have had romance with your husband?'' Pageant president David Marmel said he had not seen the survey, adding that they were used in the past to find out types of products used by contestants for the product-marketing purposes of pageant sponsors. Marmel said the women were not obliged to answer the questions. The three contestants also complained Tuesday about the use of bikinis, saying the skimpy attire was degrading for a pageant featurng mothers and professional women. ``How is it going to look for my fellow workers to see me bumping and grinding in a bikini on national television? It's demeaning, said Mrs. Gamble, a marketing director for an engineering firm. Only single-piece suits were used in state contests leading to the national pageant, she said. Jennifer Kline, 21, of Minnesota, won the pageant that ended Sunday and was televised Tuesday by ABC.
AP900209-0289 	X	Bond prices rose sharply Friday, rallying after the successful completion of the Treasury Department's $30 billion quarterly refunding auction. The newly issued 30-year government bond surged 1 25-32 points, or $17.81 per $1,000 in face amount, from its level at Thursday's auction. Its yield tumbled to 8.33 percent from 8.50 percent. Bond prices and yields move in opposite directions. The jump in the price of the long bond, the most widely watched of government securities, was the largest since last Oct. 13, when it rose 2 9-16 points in response to a sharp sell-off in the stock market. Credit market strategists attributed Friday's large increase to two factors: relief over the completion of the Treasury's three-day auction this week and a government report indicating that wholesale inflation in January was low, excluding volatile food and energy prices. The government sold $10 billion each of three-year notes, 10-year notes and 30-year bonds on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. The market had viewed the auctions with concern that low foreign buying would push yields up and prices down to stimulate interest. The United States has come to depend on foreign investors, particularly the Japanese, to help finance the federal deficit and pay interest on the total public debt. Instead, the auction was completed successfully, with adequate foreign interest propped up by strong domestic buying. Demand slackened only in the final leg, the 30-year bond. ``There's a lot of relief the refunding is over and the auctions by and large went well _ at least better than expected at the beginning of the week,'' said Steven A. Wood, money market economist with BankAmerica Capital Markets Group in San Francisco. In addition, the credit markets were pleased with an increase of just 0.1 percent in wholesale inflation for January excluding a spurt in food and energy prices due to severe cold around the country. Overall, the Producer Price Index for Janaury rose 1.8 percent, the sharpest rise since 1974. But the ``core rate'' excluding food energy is viewed as a better measure of underlying inflationary pressure. Economists said the low core rate was interpreted to indicate that the Federal Reserve Board would not likely raise interest rates to try to cool off the economy and curb increasing costs. High inflation tends to erode prices of fixed-income securities such as bonds. ``It's now viewed the Fed does not have to overreact to the energy and food situation and it can probably continue to hold policy pretty steady,'' Wood said. In the secondary market for Treasury securities, prices of short-term government issues rose &lsqb; point to 5-16 point, intermediate maturities gained 13-32 point to 27-32 point and long-term issues climbed 29-32 point to 1 point, according to figures provided by Telerate Inc., a financial information service. The movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value. The Shearson Lehman Hutton Daily Treasury Bond Index, which measures price movements on all outstanding Treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, gained 6.52 to 1,166.99. Yields on three-month Treasury bills fell to 7.99 percent as the discount declined 6 basis points to 7.74 percent. Yields on six-month bills slipped to 8.07 percent as the discount lost 7 basis points to 7.66 percent. Yields on one-year bills declined to 8.01 percent as the discount declined 7 basis points to 7.49 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. The yield is the annualized return on an investment in a Treasury bill. The discount is the percentage that bills are selling below the face value, which is paid at maturity. The federal funds rate, the interest rate banks charge each other on overnight loans, was quoted at 8\ percent, up from 8 3-16 percent late Thursday. In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 92\, up 9-16 point. The average yield to maturity fell to 7.38 percent from 7.43 percent late Thursday.
AP880404-0109 	X	Gov. Evan Mecham broke the law and lied about it to the state Senate, a prosecutor said today in urging the Senate to convict the impeached first-term Republican and remove him from office. Prosecutor William French said in closing arguments that Mecham broke the law in borrowing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund for his auto dealership. ``He has violated the law ... He has uttered untruths to you,'' French said. Earlier, prosecutor Paul Eckstein accused Mecham of showing ``a lifetime of reckless disregard for the reputation of anyne who has stood in his path to political power.'' ``Respondent (Mecham) has demonstrated for all the world to see his plain inability to tell the truth,' Eckstein said. ``How much proof is required to demonstrate that respondent puffed, exaggerated, misremembered, dissembled and out-and-out lied.'' Eckstein said Mecham's conduct in office ``was not just offensive, it was grossly offensive.'' Senators must decide whether to convict Mecham on two impeachment charges issued by the Arizona House. A third charge was dismissed. A vote could come late today or Tuesday, climaxing five weeks of trial, lawmakers said. A conviction would force the first-term Republican out of office. The first impeachment count accuses the governor of trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official. Mecham contended he did not intend to beak the law and that he was not fully informed of the seriousness of the alleged threat. ``Ignorance of the law is no defense,'' Eckstein told senators. But Mecham's defense lawyer, Fred Craft, told senators, ``You're being asked to politically assassinate the governor.'' ``He doesn't resign (as Mecham has been urged to) because he's not guilty of these charges,'' Craft said. ``He dares to right city hall and he's doing it at great cost to himself.'' Craft said in his closing argument that the allegation was based on a 90-second conversation with Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead. Craft accused prosecutors of seeking to ``twist and torture it in such a way that it accounts for an obstruction of justice.'' As closing arguments proceeded, a trumpeter played ``Taps'' outside the Senate building as a group of men carried a mock coffin labeled, ``Herein Lies the Right to an Elected Governor.'' The prosecutor accused Mecham of making a number of statements during his Senate testimony that ``are either wrong'' or were contradicted by other witnesses. Among the examples cited by Eckstein was the governor's testimony, recanted a day later, that his former chief bodyguard had stolen a report from the governor's office. Nonetheless, Eckstein said, Mecham and Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead gave ``remarkably similar'' accounts of their Nov. 15 conversation in which Mecham allegedly ordered Milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat. Mecham admitted in Senate testimony that he told Milstead, ``The attorney general is out to get me and I'm not going to help him in any way.'' Mecham sat at the defense table during closing arguments. When he arrived at the Capitol, he was cheered by a group of well-wishers as he walked into the Senate building behind bodyguards. He said nothing but smiled and flashed a thumbs-up signal at the crowd. Mecham, 63, who took office in January 1987, has maintained he is innocent of wrongdoing. He also is accused of misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership. Last week the Senate dismissed a third charge that Mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, the subject of the governor's April 21 criminal trial. Some senators said hearing testimony on that allegation could have prejudiced his criminal trial. However, Democrats acknowledged that the real reason they favored dismissing the charge was to ensure a Senate trial verdict well before the scheduled May 17 gubernatorial recall election. A two-thirds vote of the 30-member Senate is required for conviction. Lawmakers also could bar Mecham from holding any future public office. If convicted, Mecham would become the seventh U.S. governor removed from office by impeachment. The prosecution contends the governor's protocol fund _ created with inaugural ball proceeds _ was a public fund and that Mecham Pontiac needed the $80,000 loan to meet its July 1987 payroll. However, the defense said the fund was private money and that the loan was intended merely to provide a higher interest rate for the fund. Mecham Pontiac was in good financial shape and could have borrowed the money elsewhere, according to testimony by the governor's son, Dennis, who is general manager of the dealership. But the day after he testified last week, Dennis Mecham announced the dealership was being sold. Sales had suffered due to the ``avalanche of negative publicity'' about the governor, he said. The allegation regarding the death threat has boiled down to Mecham's word against that of Department of Public Safety Director Ralph Milstead. He testified that Mecham ordered him not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat by state official Lee Watkins against former top Mecham aide Donna Carlson. At the time of the alleged threat in November, Ms. Carlson was about to testify before the state grand jury regarding the $350,000 campaign loan. Senators, meanwhile, said they knew how important the impeachment vote will be. If the governor is allowed to return to his job, ``I think there'll be terrible chaos in state government,'' said Minority Leader Alan Stephens, a Democrat. Lawmakers' own careers also may hang in the balance, some senators said.
AP901220-0009 	X	NASA's mission is ``probably more difficult than that of any other organization in the world,'' says a report by the advisory committee on the future of the U.S. space program. It offered this illustration of what makes the National Aeronautics and Space Adminstration's job so tough: ``Each Voyager spacecraft has the electronic circuitry of over 2,000 color television sets, yet is required to work for 12 years while traveling from Earth to Neptune. ``The two Voyager spacecraft schedules were absolutely unforgiving, the planets in their paths aligning themselves only once every 176 years. Yet by the time Voyager 2 reached Neptune, 4.4 billion miles away and 12 years later, the spacecraft was a mere 22 miles off its charted course and only one second off its updated flyby time. ``Mechanical challenges are equally impressive. Each space shuttle contains some 300 miles of electrical wiring, over 3,000 feet of welds and over 2.5 million lines of software code. Its pumps propel 65,000 gallons (the capacity of a large swimming pool) through its engines each minute. ``The power turbine on the shuttle operates at a temperature of 1,300 degrees Fahrenheit. Just four feet away, the pump turbine operates at minus 400 degrees Fahrenheit .... ``The Hubble Space Telescope involved a total of over 40 million hours of work. To process a space shuttle for flight requires that 1.2 million separate procedures be accomplished. ``Furthermore, NASA must do all that it does in the public spotlight - which is, of course, as it should be.''
AP900822-0011 	X	U.S. Sen. Alan Simpson and Gov. Mike Sullivan handily won their primary races Tuesday, while GOP gubernatorial candidate Mary Mead took an early lead in an unusual two-woman race for her party's nomination. With 154 of the state's 471 precincts reporting, Mead had 69 percent of the vote to state Rep. Nyla Murphy's 31 percent. Simpson, the Senate minority whip, was easily winning his third Republican nomination with 83 percent of the early vote. It wasn't clear which of six little-known Democrats would win the right to challenge Simpson. Kathy Helling, a 32-year-old college student, and Al Hamburg, who was convicted last year of forging names on a campaign petition, were the top vote-getters in early returns. As it was four years ago, Sullivan walked away with the nomination Tuesday. He got 88 percent of the early vote in his primary contest with motorcycle mechanic Ron ``Suds'' Clingman. The governor said he would have preferred to face stiffer competition. ``I have to say that when you watch people debating the issues on the other side, you wish you had some primary opposition so you could talk about the issues,'' said Sullivan. The hunt for the GOP gubernatorial nomination pitted Mead, 55, the daughter of former Gov. and U.S. Sen. Cliff Hansen, against Murphy, a 59-year-old Casper woman who has served the past 12 years in the state House of Representatives. Mead's campaign stressed her skills as a rancher and businesswoman and attacked Sullivan's economic development efforts. Murphy, in turn, accused Mead of having a negative attitude toward Wyoming and of failing to propose solutions to the shortfalls she perceived. Sullivan largely ignored the primary campaign and stuck close to his gubernatorial duties. U.S. Rep. Craig Thomas was uncontested in the primary. Elected last year to fill Dick Cheney's unexpired term in office, Thomas is seeking his first full-term in the House this fall. Also unopposed was his Democratic challenger, Pete Maxfield, a University of Wyoming law professor.
AP880728-0025 	X	Dartmouth College says ``bullying tactics'' aimed at a black professor by staffers of a stridently conservative student publication led to suspensions that are now the subject of two lawsuits. The Dartmouth Review's lawsuits accuse the college of reverse discrimination against white students and of violating free speech rights for suspending three of its staffers. The Review staffers were suspended following a confrontation in a college classroom with a black music professor who earlier had been harshly criticized in the independent, off-campus newspaper. Review attorney Harvey D. Myerson said ``the facts clearly indicate that the students would not have been given such draconian penalties if they were black students criticizing a white professor.'' But officials at the private liberal arts college in Hanover, N.H., said Wednesday the disciplinary action against the students was taken to preserve the ``integrity'' of the classroom. Described by its critics as anti-minority, anti-women and anti-homosexual, the Review often has been the center of controversy since it was founded in 1980. In March of this year, Dartmouth President David Freedman blasted the paper, calling its staff ``ideological provocateurs posing as journalists.'' The faculty censured it in 1982 as racist and sexist after a critique of Dartmouth's affirmative action programs, written in what was intended to be black dialect and headlined: ``Dis Sho' Ain't No Jive, Bro.'' In 1984, a Review reporter secretly tape-recorded a Gay Students Association meeting and published excerpts and the names of group leaders. A Dartmouth disciplinary panel ruled in March that the three Review staffers were guilty of disorderly conduct for failing to leave Professor William Cole's classroom after being asked to do so. The paper earlier had described Cole's music class as ``one of Dartmouth's most academically deficient courses.'' The paper's attorneys, who filed suits in federal and state courts in New Hampshire, announced the action at a Capitol Hill news conference Wednesday with support from three conservative lawmakers. Sen. Gordon Humphrey, R-N.H., called the disciplinary actions ``nothing less than a crude assault on freedom of expression and political diversity on campus.'' ``The elite Ivy League academics constantly proclaim themselves the champions of free speech and diversity of opinion. Yet here, when a small band of students express a viewpoint offensive to the prevailing orthodoxy, the college comes squarely down on the side of suppression and harsh persecution.'' Humphrey was joined at the news conference by Sen. William Armstrong, R-Colo., and Rep. Bob Smith, R-N.H. A state suit filed in New Hampshire Superior Court addresses the free speech issue, while a federal suit filed in U.S. District Court focuses on the reverse discrimination charge. Dartmouth spokesman Alex Huppe, who attended the news conference, said the disciplinary action had nothing to do with First Amendment rights. ``The sanctity of a classroom is what this is all about,'' Huppe said. ``Dartmouth College has got to protect the integrity of a classroom. They went in there to disrupt his classroom.'' Huppe accused the students of using ``bullying tactics'' in their confrontation with the professor and their refusal to leave. After the classroom incident, Freedman, the college president, said the paper had been ``irresponsible, mean-spirited, cruel and ugly'' and that it was trying to poison the ``intellectual environment'' of the campus.
AP880928-0252 	X	A group of Washington lobbyists have formed the capital-based National Vintners Association to promote and represent in Congress the wine interests in the 43 producing states. The NVA, in addition to representing the approximately 1,300 wineries in this country, also is targeting for membership thousands more winegrape growers at the start of the production chain, according to association Executive Director Richard Feeney. The NVA ``is a national trade association based on Capitol Hill...because the wine industry faces serious threats from federal regulation, because NVA members need to have timely, accurate information from Washington,'' Feeney said. Feeney, a Congressional lobbyist and onetime director of the National Meat Association, said his direct connection with wine was from 1970-74, when he was partner in a wine importing business. Feeney said the association, only a few weeks old, had no intention of vying for supremacy with California's 54-year-old Wine Institute, which directly represents for 520 of the state's 770 wineries. Most other wine-producing states have no organization, said Feeney, contending, ``The fact remains that if a vintner in Virginia or Oregon wants to join a national organization, there ain't any.'' Feeney said he did not think many other wine-producing states had adequate liaison with Congress and federal agencies affecting the industry. Vintners are worried about what they see as a wave of prohibitionist feeling in America, expressed in new label laws, restaurant posting of toxicity warnings for pregnant women, new taxes, and a widespread anti-alcohol surge. One of the NVA's most ambitious programs will be to lobby Congress to change the way federal law regards winegrapes, said Feeney, who said lawmakers might be ready ``to look at wine differently.'' Unlike many other agricultural products, grapes grown for wine get no subsidy, and the end product is regarded an alcoholic beverage subject to regulation by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Feeney said, ``the time has come for wine to take its place with other agricultural products'' and to share benefits enjoyed by ``commodities such as soybeans, beef, dairy products, catfish and pork.'' He said he wants wine looked upon as food, a desire that coincides with ongoing efforts of California's major vintners, principally Robert Mondavi, who is about to launch a privately financed pro-wine program.
AP880601-0169 	X	Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev paid tribute to President Reagan on Wednesday for retracting his characterization of the Soviet Union as an ``evil empire,'' but he blamed the American side for the failure to make more tangible progress at the fourth superpower summit in 30 months. In the first nationally televised Moscow news conference by a Kremlin leader, Gorbachev hailed the continuing U.S.-Soviet dialogue and said ``it is vitally necessary'' that his meetings resume after Reagan's successor takes office in January. In a good-natured, wide-ranging session with Soviet and foreign reporters, the Communist Party chief held forth for nearly two hours, alternately praising the tone of U.S.-Soviet dialogue while criticizing specific U.S. positions. Gorbachev noted that ``within the walls of the Kremlin, next to the Czar's gun, right in the heart of the evil empire,'' Reagan had responded, ``No,'' when asked if the Soviet Union still deserved the appellation he gave it in March 1983. Reagan explained Tuesday that his characterization, one of the most-quoted of Reagan's presidency, was made in ``another time, another era.'' ``We take note of this,'' Gorbachev said, drawing on an ancient Greek saying to add, ``Everything flows, everything changes.'' Gorbachev said his meetings with Reagan were ``in-depth and at times intense discussions right up to the last minutes.'' He described the talks as respectful and productive, but indicated emotions ran high at times, saying he and Reagan were ``standing up at the table'' to make their points. ``I think that the meetings once again demonstrated the fact that we are indulging in realistic dialogue,'' the 57-year-old Soviet leader said. Gorbachev said he believed a treaty cutting strategic nuclear weapons by 30 percent to 50 percent was still possible this year, despite the failure to break the logjam that has blocked progress toward an agreement since the Washington summit last December. Asked if he expected to meet Reagan again before the president leaves office, Gorbachev said it was unlikely unless there is an unforeseen breakthrough in the strategic arms talks. He said the United States rejected several Soviet proposals for inclusion in a 24-page joint statement issued on conclusion of the talks. Both sides agreed there should be no war between them, yet the Americans objected to describing their goal as ``peaceful coexistence,'' or even ``coexistence,'' Gorbachev said. Gorbachev's remarks were contained in a 50-minute opening statement followed by a question-and-answer session that ran about an hour with questioners picked by Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady I. Gerasimov from a show of hands of some 300 Soviet and foreign journalists. The general secretary reiterated his criticism of ousted Moscow party boss Boris Yeltsin, a one-time protege, and dismissed Yeltsin's suggestion that the Kremlin's No. 2 man, Yegor Ligachev, should resign. Last October, at a closed meeting of the Communist Party's policy-making Central Committee, Yeltsin criticized the slow pace of perestroika, Gorbachev's campaign to modernize the Soviet economy and society, and offered to resign. Gorbachev said Wednesday that his one-time protege, who had risen to non-voting membership on the ruling Politburo, was overruled by fellow members of the Central Committee. He said he had not seen Yeltsin's recent comments in interviews with Western television networks but would ``demand from Comrade Yeltsin explanations as to what it is all about and what he is after.'' As for Ligachev and reports he was being pushed from power, Gorbachev said ``no such problem exists'' with the man widely perceived as the leader of a conservative faction opposing Gorbachev in the Politburo. ``Perestroika will win out,'' he said of speculation that the reform movement could be in trouble. He also said he had heard no alternative to his reforms and concluded, ``There can be some maneuvers ... but we have undertaken irreversible change.'' Gorbachev, sitting at a table with key members of his summit negotiating team, dominated the session with a self-confident air. Speaking off the cuff much of the time, he made his points gesturing with his hands and flashing a smile. At one point, when he realized that some American correspondents couldn't understand because their translation devices weren't functioning, he directed a good-natured reorganization of the seating, telling Soviet reporters to take chairs where the earphones weren't working. Many reporters, including NBC anchor Tom Brokaw, whom Gorbachev singled out by name, stood up and switched seats in the just-renovated auditorium in the Soviet Foreign Ministry press center. The party chief indicated that the United States and Soviet Union had made a recent breakthrough in long-stalled conventional arms talks in Europe but accused the United States of ``incomprehensible maneuvers'' that scuttled any mention of that in the closing communique. Asked about the prospects for a fifth summit, Gorbachev said, ``I like the possibility for a meeting with just one problem, if we have an opportunity to achieve a treaty concerning offensive arms.'' He said the president's Strategic Defense Initiative was one sure obstacle, along with a dispute over limits on submarine-launched cruise missiles. Later he said he told Reagan the president's view that the so-called Star Wars program is strictly defensive was ``just not serious.'' Asked about the Middle East, Gorbachev said for the first time that as soon as an international conference on the region is convened, ``we are prepared to address ourselves to regularizing relations with Israel,'' severed in 1967. He cited the Afghanistan agreement as an example of what could be achieved if the superpowers worked together with warring parties to solve the conflicts, but noted that if Soviet forces now come under attack from rebels as they withdraw, ``we shall react accordingly and appropriately.'' On human rights, he said that when Reagan ``tried to persuade me to change my mind, I said, `Your explanations are not convincing ... I am not filled with admiration at this aspect of the visit.''' Reagan met with a group of dissidents and refuseniks during his five-day visit here but scrapped a plan to visit a family of would-be Jewish emigrants. Sources said the Soviets warned U.S. officials the family would never be permitted to leave the country if the Reagans followed through with their plan. After talking of what he called the contrary attitude of the United States on some issues, Gorbachev singled out economic relations. ``Authoritative parts of American business circles would like to do business,'' he said. ``They are faced with intimidation and all sorts of restrictions.'' He cited the Jackson-Vanik Amendment which links trade opportunities to emigration freedoms and said he told the president: ``Why should the dead drag on the coattails of the living? ... The amendment was passed in totally different circumstances a decade ago. We should base our policies on present-day realities.'' As he has before, Gorbachev described the agreement to eliminate intermediate range (INF) nuclear weapons as ``a watershed political event in the Soviet-American dialogue.'' Earlier, in remarks at the exchange of final INF papers, the Soviet leader summarized the proceedings as ``big politics ... worthy of new times.'' ``The era of nuclear disarmament has begun,'' Gorbachev said. In his news conference statement, Gorbachev was sharply critical of the U.S. stand on reducing the non-nuclear forces in Europe of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw Pact. He said Reagan had rejected a Soviet proposal to exchange data on the troops as a first step toward a massive reduction, but ``the other side immediately tried to dodge the issue.'' Gorbachev said the United States engaged in ``incomprehensible maneuvers'' and ``we missed a chance to take an important step forward to a civil relationship.''
AP880812-0236 	X	A refusenik family was embraced by tearful relatives Friday evening as they arrived in Boston after gaining permission to emigrate from the Soviet Union after the Moscow summit. ``I'm overwhelmed with gratitude toward all the people who helped me all the 11 years,'' said Yuri Zieman at Boston's Logan International Airport. Zieman, his wife, Tatyana, and their 12-year-old daughter, Vera, were greeted by relatives and Jewish activists who worked to secure their exit visas. ``We'll drink champagne and I'll put them to bed, they didn't sleep for two days,'' said Zieman's older daughter, Galina Khatutsky, who emigrated in 1987 with her husband. ``I don't feel like it really happened because I was imagining it so many times,'' said Mrs. Zieman. ``It's still in a dream.'' U.S. diplomats said President Reagan had planned to visit the Zieman family at their Moscow apartment during the summit meeting to underscore U.S. concern for human rights in the Soviet Union. The visit was canceled after U.S. officials were warned it could jeopardize the family's chances of emigrating. After the summit, the Ziemans were told their request had been denied again, but a few weeks later they were granted permission to leave. Zieman, 49, a computer specialist who lost his job when he applied to emigrate in 1977, worked as a plumber until he became ill several months ago. Zieman had been told he was not permitted to leave the country for security reasons. He contended he never had access to state secrets and had no information that could threaten Soviet security. The Ziemans left Moscow on Wednesday and stayed in Vienna until they left for Boston. Khatutsky, of Boston, said her parents will stay in an apartment in suburban Belmont. A refusenik is a term applied to Soviet citizens _ usually Jewish _ who are refused permission to emigrate to another country. Among the gathering of about 30 people at Logan airport was Sheila Galland of the Waltham, Mass.-based Action for Soviet Jewry. She called the release of the Ziemans a victory for the refusenik cause but said much work remains. ``There are still people waiting 10 years, 12 years,'' Galland said. She called the decision to free the Ziemans, ``a P.R. ploy,'' for Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev.
AP881007-0060 	X	Two American human rights groups claimed today that Filipino soldiers may be linked to the killings of five human rights lawyers and the harassment of a dozen others since last year. A report by the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights and Asia Watch, both New York-based groups, claimed President Corazon Aquino's government ``has failed to respond adequately'' to attacks on human rights lawyers and that victims of abuses were afraid to seek legal redress. The 28-page report cited the unsolved killings of five human rights lawyers, who were slain in separate incidents from October 1987 until last June. It said evidence existed that the military or military-backed anti-Communist vigilante groups may have been involved in the killings. The report by the two groups said more than a dozen other lawyers have been subjected to threats, harassment and surveillance since 1987. It urged the Aquino government to ``publicly and unambiguously express its commitment to the protection of human rights lawyers and its condemnation of the killings, threats and harassment.'' ``Victims of abuses are often afraid to pursue legal redress,'' said the report, written by Norman Dorsen, professor of law at New York University, and Nadine Strossen, visiting professor of law at New York Law School. ``Those who do, often discover that those responsible are shielded from prosecution by the local military detachment,'' the report said. There was no comment from the government on the charges. Mrs. Aquino has vowed to curb human rights abuses. But last month, she said it was unfair to blame the entire military establishment for abuses by a few of its members. The report was released two days after the London-based Amnesty International human rights organization claimed more than 100 leftists, trade unionists and social activists were slain in the Philippines last year because of alleged links to Communist rebels. Human rights groups here claim such abuses are continuing despite Mrs. Aquino's pledge to protect civil liberties after the 1986 ouster of President Ferdinand Marcos. During a human rights seminar here Thursday, military officials and civil rights workers clashed over the government's plans to deploy a new civilian militia, the Citizens' Armed Forces Geographical Unit, to help battle the rebels. Undersecretary of Defense Eduardo Ermita said the 160,000-member armed forces alone could not contend with the 25,000-strong New People's Army, Moslem insurgents and right-wing extremists. He said members of the new force would be carefully screened and would face court-martial for any human rights abuses. But Mariss Diokno, a prominent human rights activist, said the new force was ``anti-democratic'' and a step toward militarization that social activists hoped would be reversed following Marcos' ouster.
AP880505-0091 	X	A French assault team today stormed a cave in this French Pacific territory and freed 22 gendarmes and a prosecutor held hostage by Melanesian separatists. An official said 17 people were killed. Bernard Pons, minister for overseas territories in the conservative government of Premier Jacques Chirac of France, said the dead included two members of the assault team and 15 kidnappers. He also said two members of the assault team were seriously injured. Pons said the hostages were freed after ``a particularly violent battle'' in the nearly seven-hour assault on a network of caves in Ouvea, an island off the northeast coast of New Caledonia. The assault team attacked the cave with tear gas, forcing most of the approximately 30 kidnappers out, Pons told a news conference after returning from Ouvea, where he had traveled for the operation. The hostages freed themselves from their handcuffs before the attack after a key was smuggled to them by Capt. Philippe Legorjus, chief of an anti-terrorism squad. Legorjus had been captured during earlier hostage negotiations with the separatists, then freed to act as an go-between with French authorities. Legorjus made several trips to and from the caves during negotiations and was told that the hostages would be killed if he did not return. Legorjus also smuggled to the caves two pistols with which hostages defended themselves during the attack. ``Profiting from the smoke created by tear gas bombs, the hostages were able to escape through a chimney in the back of the cave,'' Pons said. Police said the injured were taken to a hospital in Noumea, capital of this island territory 1,300 miles northeast of Australia. In Paris, Defense Minister Andre Giraud said in a television interview that the kidnappers' chief was among those killed. Giraud told French radio that the attack was ordered by Chirac, with approval from President Francois Mitterrand, when negotiations with the kidnappers stalled. ``The situation inside the cave had become extremely dangerous,'' Giraud said. ``In any case, it was entirely intolerable that representatives of the forces of order might be held hostage.'' Jean-Marie Tjibaou, president of the Kanak Socialist National Liberation Front, the main Melanesian separatist organization, said the operation was ``a hard blow for the Kanak people.'' ``This will not stop the determination of the Kanak people in their demand for independence,'' Tjibaou told The Associated Press by telephone from his home in Hienghene at the northern end of New Caledonia. Asked if he expected to be arrested, Tjibaou replied: ``It's always possible. It would be completely logical, since the government thinks there is no political claim but only a terrorist band.'' Authorities had imposed a near total news blackout for several days, cut communications with Ouvea and would not allow journalists to go there. The Melanesian kidnappers had demanded negotiations toward independence for New Caledonia, the French Pacific island territory. Fifteen of the gendarmes had been held since they were kidnapped from a police station on Ouvea April 22. Four gendarmes were killed in that attack. Legorjus and seven other hostages were seized April 27 as they sought to negotiate the release of the other hostages. The militants were demanding that French troops be removed from Ouvea and that a mediator be sent to arrange a referendum on independence for New Caledonia, a French territory since 1853. They also had demanded the cancellation of elections, which took place during scattered violence April 24. As a result of that election, Mitterrand and Chirac will face each other in a presidential runoff election in France on Sunday. New Caledonia has become an issue in the campaign. Of New Caledonia's 145,000 inhabitants, 43 percent are native Melanesian, known as Kanaks, most of whom desire independence. European settlers make up 36 percent of the population, with the rest Asian and Polynesian. This group generally would prefer to remain part of France.
AP900214-0207 	X	Here is a brief economic rundown of the countries collectively referred to as Eastern Europe:
AP900215-0134 	X	Two Navy jets collided over the Atlantic on Thursday, killing one pilot and injuring the other, authorities said. The planes were taking part in an exercise around noon when the accident occurred 70 miles southeast of Jacksonville, the Navy said. The pilot killed was flying a single-engine A-4F attack jet from Oceana Naval Air Station in Virginia, said Bert Byers, a spokesman for Cecil Field Naval Air Station. The pilot's identity was not immediately released. The other pilot, Cmdr. David R. Miller, 39, of Orange Park, was rescued and was reported to be alert and talking at a hospital. Miller was flying a twin-engine, single-seat FA-18 Hornet, a strike fighter. The cause of the accident is under investigation.
AP901113-0022 	X	The first all-woman team to strike out for the South Pole hopes to return from the stark polar laboratory with valuable data on how women react to extreme cold and monotony. ``For us, it's not just a ski rally. We are trying to complete a science project,'' Soviet expedition member Irina Gureva said Monday. ``We strongly believe that women can live in the South Pole and, alongside men, can carry out scientific research.'' The expedition of three Americans, one Japanese and 12 Soviets is scheduled to reach Antarctica on Nov. 23 to begin the 70-day, 800-mile trek on skis from the Soviet scientific station at Vostok to the South Pole. Along the way, scientists will gather data on the women's medical, biological and psychological reactions. ``The cold and wind will be something to contend with. The altitude is something we're not sure of,'' said Julie Hyde, an Outward Bound instructor in Ely, Minn. ``That's the kind of thing that makes me most apprehensive. The monotony of the vast whiteness is something I've never experienced before.'' Some scientists have argued that previous cold weather research on men should stand for women, but the expedition's researhers aren't convinced. ``We don't know that there is a difference. But how can you say there are no differences unless you've looked?'' asked Dolly Lefever, a nurse-midwife from Alaska who will be studying changes in the women's menstrual cycles. Studies by the Soviet scientists will be of greater scope. A team of doctors will test blood and other bodily fluids to determine how a woman's metabolism is affected by the extreme cold and physically demanding conditions. A psychologist also will monitor how the women handle isolation and interact with other team members. The expedition should hold fewer surprises for some of the Soviet members who participated in a 1988-89 Antarctic expedition. ``After returning to Moscow, we could not accept external disturbances. We became more sensitive to outside noises, loud voices, cars,'' Gureva said. Such research could give insight into other situations where people live in closed, isolated quarters for long periods, such as in space and in submarines. ``The expedition allows us to study the human stress factor in real circumstances,'' said Irina Solovyova, a Soviet psychologist and cosmonaut. Besides the scientific goals, the women also hope to bring attention to next year's International Antarctica Treaty signing, which will determine if the continent will remain a world park. ``We are hoping that Antarctica will remain as it is, not belonging to anyone. We hope that mining exploration there can be kept at a level that will keep Antarctica pristine,'' Hyde said. Some of the participants conceded that the length and dangers of the journey caused some stress in their families. Gureva said her 10-year-old daughter was at first upset by the separation but became enthusiastic about the trip after seeing stories about it in the Soviet press. ``I think it's useful for a child when their parents can fulfill something great in their life. I think it's a great example for them,'' Gureva said. ``As for husbands ... they are not very glad, but I think their love does not decrease.''
AP900514-0251 	X	The U.S. dollar closed mixed Monday against other major foreign currencies in European trading. Gold prices, meanwhile, were little changed. Currency dealers said news of a major loss by West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's conservative Christian Democractic Union party in two state elections Sunday boosted the dollar against the mark. ``The election outcome wasn't really favorable for the D-mark,'' said a trader at a large European bank in Frankfurt. ``It looks like the dollar has recovered a bit from last week's weakness.'' European markets, however, didn't react to news that U.S. business inventories were unchanged in March, dealers said. The economic indicator was fully in line with expectations, they added. Traders predicted quiet trading before the release, later in the week, of several other U.S. economic indicators. The Japanese yen continued to recoup major losses suffered earlier this year, dealers said. One trader said the more stable Japanese stock exchange justifies a stronger yen. In Tokyo, the dollar fell to a closing 153.35 Japanese yen from 154.15 yen at Friday's close. Later, in London, it fell to 152.75 yen. In London, the British pound was unchanged from Friday's close at $1.6817. By midday in New York it traded at $1.68025. Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday: 1.6442 West German marks, up from 1.6300; 1.3952 Swiss francs, down from 1.3955; 5.5430 French francs, up from 5.5096; 1.8472 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8330; 1,209.75 Italian lire, up from 1,200.40; and 1.1767 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1783. Selected midday dollar rates in New York, included: 152.845 Japanese yen, 1.6470 West German marks, 1.39475 Swiss francs, 1,209.60 Italian lire, and 1.17575 Canadian dollars. Gold bullion dealers said gold was locked in a narrow range and they predicted trading volume would remain thin. Gold rose in London to a late bid price of $369.75 a troy ounce, up from $369.05 bid late Friday. In Zurich, gold fell to $368.75 an ounce, down from $368.80 Friday. Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold fell 0.97 cents to close at a bid $369.10 an ounce. Silver bullion rose in London to a late bid price of $5.09 a troy ounce, up from $5.06 Friday.
AP900115-0084 	X	Czechoslovakia began talks today with the Soviet Union on the withdrawal of about 75,000 Soviet troops, and one source said Czechoslovak officials want at least half of the force out by May. On the eve of the talks, about 6,000 people protested in the town of Pohorany, demanding the entire Soviet force leave by Aug. 21 _ the 22nd anniversary of the Soviet-led invasion that crushed the Prague Spring reforms. Foreign Ministry spokesman Lubos Dobrovsky said last week that the Soviet forces should leave Czechoslovakia by the end of the year. ``The idea is to have them (Soviets) make a political commitment during these talks that all the troops will leave by the end of the year,'' the source said on condition of anonymity. ``The rough idea of the time frame on the Czechoslovak side is to see a 50 to 60 percent withdrawal by mid-May,'' the source said, adding the talks should focus on technical details of the pullout as well as its precise timing. No details emerged from the talks, led by Deputy Foreign Minister Evzen Vacek and his Soviet counterpart, Ivan Aboimov. The source said demands for the complete withdrawal before Aug. 21 were ``technically out of the question.'' He noted it took a year to withdraw 5,300 soldiers, 708 tanks and 200 planes from Czechoslovakia in 1989 as part of a Kremlin move to withdraw about 50,000 troops from Eastern Europe. A peaceful revolution in November and December toppled the hard-line Communist government. Dissident playwright Vaclav Havel is now president and Alexander Dubcek, the former Communist Party chief who sponsored many of the Prague Spring reforms in 1968, is head of Parliament. In another development today, a South Korean government delegation arrived in Prague to discuss establishing diplomatic relations, the state CTK news agency reported. The delegation was invited by the Foreign Ministry, CTK said. South Korea, which is staunchly anti-Communist, has established formal diplomatic ties with Hungary, Poland and Yugoslavia in recent months. In December, South Korea and Czechoslovakia agreed to open trade offices in each other's countries.
AP880610-0239 	X	Gov. Roy Romer on Friday reluctantly recommended a permit for a dam that would guarantee a water supply for the growing metropolitan area at the cost of flooding a scenic canyon. ``Colorado should build Two Forks, in my judgment, only as a last resort,'' the governor told a packed news conference at the state Capitol. The proposed Two Forks dam and reservoir southwest of Denver would flood Cheesman Canyon, which Romer would like to see preserved as a state recreational area. ``I am challenging the state to find an alternate solution,'' said Romer, who attached attached several conditions to his recommendation and said he favored building a smaller dam and reservoir at Estabrook. Romer said the Two Forks permit was ``an insurance policy'' for metropolitan Denver to be used only if other water sources and conservation proved insufficient, which he said is unlikely. ``We do not need to sacrifice that canyon in order to have water,'' the governor said. The dam project was proposed by the Denver Water Board and a consortium of 42 metropolitan area water providers and municipalities. Proponents have portrayed the project as crucial to metropolitan growth. They project that the region's population will grow from its present 1.5 million to 2.5 million by 2035, outstripping its supply of water. Environmentalists and sportsmen say the project would needlessly wipe out 20 miles of trout fishing and recreation, and would threaten whooping crane habitat and irrigators along the Platte River in Nebraska. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers must decide whether to issue a permit, and is accustomed to considering a governor's recommendation as an important factor. At the Corps of Engineers district office in Omaha, Col. Steven G. West said Romer's statement was ``one of great importance in the Corps' decision,'' which he expected in late summer or early fall. The 615-foot-high dam and 300-foot-deep reservoir would be built downstream from the confluence of the South Platte River and its North Fork, about 25 miles southwest of Denver. If permits for the project were issued immediately, it could be ready for use in 1995, providing 98,000 acre-feet of water to the area, officials have said. One acre-foot is about 325,000 gallons. Romer said he would recommend a 25-year shelf life for the project, meaning it could be built anytime during that period. Romer pegged his approval on several conditions, including the creation of a metropolitan-area water conservation program and a Metropolitan Water Authority to plan distribution of water supplies. He also would require a plan to replace lost wildlife habitat and recreational facilities if Two Forks is built. He also said he would seek a full study of his proposal to build a smaller dam and reservoir at Estabrook, about 20 miles west of Two Forks up the North Fork. ``Handing the decision over the Legislature to save the canyon is a cop-out,'' said Carse Pustmueller, Platte River coordinator for the National Audubon Society. ``We're extremely pleased that the governor endorsed the issuance of permits and the 25-year shelf life for Two Forks,'' said Ed Pokorney of the Denver Water Department. Nebraska Gov. Kay Orr said Romer appeared to want to have it both ways. ``Gov. Romer, I think, has been acknowldedged as somebody who is a great compromiser,'' she said. ``But with his statement today, I'd say he is a great fence-straddler.''
AP880902-0111 	X	The Soviets are expanding naval facilities in the Syrian port of Tartus and the neighboring island of Arwad to counter the U.S. presence in the Mediterranean, Israeli analysts said today. The Soviet Union's installations in Tartus include submarine and surface ship maintenance facilities and constitute the largest Soviet naval base in the Mediterranean, said Dore Gold of Tel Aviv University's Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies. According to Aharon Levran, editor of The Middle East Military Balance published this week by the center, the facilities extend to Arwad island and include recreation facilities for Soviet crews. Gold said there was no declassified information available on the current or planned size of the Soviet base but said the general trend has been one of expansion at least since 1987. In addition, the Soviets use land installations in Syria for naval and air intelligence-gathering, the two analysts said in separate interviews with The Associated Press. Gold said that the main objective of the Tartus base expansion was to counter the presence of the U.S. 6th Fleet in the Mediterranean. The Soviets had to find new arrangements in the region after Albania shifted its alliance to China in 1961 and Egypt abrogated its friendship treaty with Moscow in 1976, he said. He said the Tartus facility was important for prolonged deployment of Soviet attack submarines in the Mediterranean. In an article published today in the English-language daily Jerusalem Post, Gold noted that the London-based Jane's Defense Weekly in May referred to Tartus as ``the primary maintenance facility for Soviet submarines operating in the Mediterranean.'' Levran said the Soviets have been using Tartus for at least five years and that the base's expansion apparently was a price Syria had to pay for purchasing Soviet weapons. In spite of the Kremlin's recent reluctance to supply Syria with advanced weapons systems, he said, ``Syria is still the Soviet Union's strategic asset in the Middle East.'' He said the base replaced the Soviet practice of using Mediterranean Squadron's mother-ships for maintenance. But he said the base was less important than the recently developed Soviet Far Eastern base in Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam. Syria's navy, Levran wrote in the 1987-88 Middle East Military Balance, ``underwent a radical facelift'' due to supplies, training and maintenance cooperation from the Soviet Union. The Soviet base in Tartus could ``create a problem'' for Israel in wartime because Israel may be reluctant to harm a Soviet-flagged facility, he said.
AP900628-0189 	X	The Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 12-4 Thursday for a bill that would impose sanctions on Iraq because of human rights violations. The measure said the Iraqi government has ``systematically detained, tortured and executed'' thousands of citizens, depopulated Kurdish areas of the country and murdered and tortured children to punish their parents. The fate of the bill in the Senate is uncertain. The Bush administration has opposed the measure. The legislation would require the United States to oppose any lending to Iraq by international financial institutions and bar U.S. government credits to the country. That would cost Iraq $200 million a year in credits through the Export-Import Bank as well as even larger amounts in loan guarantees used to buy U.S. farm products.
AP900813-0074 	X	The White House said today its naval barricade of Iraqi ships is taking hold as the United States and its allies squeeze Saddam Hussein economically so the Iraqis cannot ``maintain their war machine.'' The Bush administration said bluntly today that even food would be withheld from Iraq. ``You don't give them the essentials that enable them to carry on the war,'' White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. In Saudi Arabia, where American troops are building a massive defense against any further Iraqi aggression, the acting chief of staff for U.S. troop operations told reporters, ``I think our position grows stronger with each day that goes by.'' As Maj. Gen. Don L. Kaufman spoke, the steady drone of planes brought more soldiers and hardware to the Saudi desert. Kaufman said planes were landing virtually every 10 minutes or so with their military cargo. On the economic front, Fitzwater said the sanctions endorsed by the United Nations are hurting Baghdad. ``The purpose of the embargo is to put the pinch of them,'' Fitzwater said in Kennebunkport, where President Bush is vacationing. ``We assess the impact of the embargo as excellent.'' He said the White House had ``obvious humanitarian concerns'' about prohibiting food imports into Iraq. But he added: ``The purpose of the sanctions and the embargo is to put the pinch on them. It seems fairly obvious to me you don't let foodstuffs and other things go in that are subject to the sanctions. The purpose is not to let supplies go in that allow them to maintain the war machine, allow them to maintain their aggressive takeover of Kuwait.'' Asked about reports that Jordan was allowing Iraqi shipments through, Fitzwater said, ``We are hopeful that Jordan will comply. They have said they will abide by the sanctions.'' Fitzwater also said the White House reported ``two or three ships in recent hours that have turned away or been turned away or at least have otherwise not landed with their cargo.'' An Iraqi tanker tried to dock at a Saudi terminal to take on oil, but was turned away by Saudi officials, diplomatic sources in the region reported. Bush and his top aides are avoiding the word ``blockade'' to describe a U.S. decision to use whatever means necessary to choke off Iraq's oil trade and imports of other goods, including food. But their intention was clear. ``I consider interdiction of shipping to be in accord'' with United Nations economic sanctions, Bush told reporters Sunday. ``No point getting into all these semantics. The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there and that is what we're going to do.'' Diplomatic sources at the oil terminal near Yanbu, Saudi Arabia, said the Iraqi tanker al-Qadissiyah, which could carry up to 900,000 barrels of oil, failed in its attempt to moor Sunday night because three tug boats that normally would help have been taken out of the water. The sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the tanker sailed away today, after its apparent attempt to defy a U.S. declaration that its warships would enforce a U.N. embargo aimed at forcing Iraq's Saddam Hussein to give up his forced annexation of Kuwait. Prince Bandar Bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said on ``Good Morning America'' that Saddam should not try to make the Israeli territories a part of the Kuwait crisis. ``He is mixing the issues,'' the ambassador said. ``That is not an excuse for an Arab country to go an invade another Arab country.'' The United States intensified its military fortification of Saudi Arabia and the surrounding seas over the weekend, sending in Marine and Army air assault troops and shipping Patriot surface-to-air missiles and other sophisticated air-deployed weapons to the region. Sources who disclosed the movements said Pentagon planners assumed that, in the event of an Iraqi attack, an initial air battle could be decisive. The commander of the U.S. military action, Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, briefed reporters at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida on the logistical difficulties of transporting troops and backup equipment 7,000 miles by air and 12,000 miles by sea. Schwarzkopf said the Iraqis are ``dug in right now for a strong defense.'' ``We have built up a great deal of force over there now ... and if they do make an attack they are going to pay a price for it,'' he said. Schwarzkopf said troops would be on guard against terrorists as well as Iraqi guns and gas. An estimated 50,000 troops are committed to Saudi Arabia in the initial deployment, with contingency plans for a force up to 250,000. ``I would never tell you that the American forces that are there are 100 percent out of harm's way,'' the general said. Indeed, the Pentagon reported the first casualty of the military action on Sunday. Air Force Staff Sgt. John Campisi, a 30-year-old aircraft mechanic from Covina, Calif., was klled when he was hit by a truck on a darkened runway. While soldiers took up their stations in the Saudi deserts, the White House pressed forward with its economic isolation of Iraq. Secretary of State James A. Baker III said the United States would begin ``almost instantly'' to ``take measures that are necessary and proportionate in order to enforce the (United Nations) sanctions.'' Asked if the United States was mounting a naval blockade, Baker _ appearing on ABC-TV's ``This Week With David Brinkley,'' _ said: ``Let's simply say that we now have the ability, the legal basis for interdicting those kinds of shipments.'' He declined to use the word blockade. Bush, vacationing in Kennebunkport, Maine, said the U.N.-approved embargo ``gave us broad authority, working in conjunction with others, to do whatever is necessary to see no oil goes out.'' Asked if the United States would block shipments of food as well as oil, the president said, ``Just watch. Everything.'' The Washington Post today quoted a senior administration official as saying, ``We will fire on a ship if it won't stop. We'll do the usual things _ warn them off, fire a shot across the bow. But if it comes to that, there is no question what we will do.'' The U.S. pledge to stop the flow of goods in and out of Iraq came after Kuwait's exiled leader, Sheik Jaber Alahmed Al-Saba, asked that the United States take steps to ensure the U.N. economic sanctions take hold. As the Bush administration vowed to quarantine Iraq, Saddam, in a statement read by a spokesman on television in Baghdad, urged his people to prepare for hardships that may result from the international economic sanctions. He also linked any Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait to an Israeli withdrawal from the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip and a Syrian withdrawal from Lebanon. Israel seized the occupied territories from Egypt and Jordan in 1967. The White House ``categorically'' rejected Saddam's proposals, press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said, calling them ``another attempt at distracting from Iraq's isolation and at imposing a new status quo.'' Only the unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait will satisfy the United States, he said.
AP900817-0139 	X	Swift criticism Friday did not keep Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos from repeating his assertion that students who don't speak English are not ready for public education. ``Parental involvement and language competency are basic,'' Cavazos told about 1,500 teachers and principals in this city on the Mexican border. ``If that child cannot speak English the first day of school, that child is not ready to learn.'' In a panel discussion later, South Texas superintendents criticized Cavazos, saying students were capable of learning in other languages. ``The comment that we heard this morning that students who are not speaking English are not ready to learn is a disabling comment,'' said Robert Zamora, superintendent of the La Joya school district. Later Friday, during a news conference across the border in Nuevo Laredo, Cavazos repeated the comment and added: ``We work with the parents, with the schools to prepare the youngsters in English so they will learn ... My final point that I always make is that they not forget that other language and that culture.'' Cavazos, former president of Texas Tech University, said he supports bilingual education, but that its goal should be encouraging students to speak English so they do not miss opportunities in the United States. It was not the first time Cavazos drew criticism from fellow Hispanics for his comments on Hispanic education. In April, the League of United Latin American Citizens criticized him for blaming Hispanic parents for the high dropout rate among their children. In March, he angered some Hispanic lawmakers when he told the state Legislature that money was not the answer to education problems. Cavazos repeated that stance Friday, saying that education could be improved by giving teachers more freedom and allowing local schools more control. ``The new bottom line in education is not how much do we need to spend by how much are our students learning,'' Cavazos said. He stressed that he was referring to public schools across the nation, not just in Texas, and acknowledged ``there have been some inequities'' in school finance in the state. In Nuevo Laredo, Cavazos and Mexican Education Secretary Manuel Bartlett Diaz signed an agreement calling for closer educational ties between the two countries. The agreement paves the way for a ``border conference'' on education next winter.
AP900505-0131 	X	Costa Rica and a group of U.S. banks signed an accord Saturday restructuring the Central American country's $1.8 billion commercial debt. The accord, which is expected to save Costa Rica $150 million a year, was signed by James Jardine of the Bank of America, and Eduardo Lizano of the Costa Rican Central Bank. Jardine acted as the representative of the creditor banks. President Oscar Arias hailed the agreement as an historic event that removes one of the main obstacles to his country's economic growth. Eduardo Lizano, president of the Central Bank, said earlier that under the agreement, Costa Rica will repurchase 64 percent of its commercial debt at 16 cents on the dollar. Costa Rica now will have until May 21 to pay $253 million to bring itself up to date in payments and repurchase the old debt. Costa Rica was one of the earliest countries to reach agreement in principle on new financing packages under a U.S. plan unveiled in March 1989 by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady. It focuses on enticing commercial banks to write off some of their loans to Third World nations or reduce the interest charged in return for guarantees that the remaining debt will be paid.
AP900323-0093 	X	Demonstrators protesting the United States' ``interventionist conduct'' in Central American hurled paint bombs at the U.S. Consulate on Friday, and two people were arrested, police said. One policeman was slightly injured in scuffles that broke out during the incident. Police spokesman Klaas Wilting said about 200 people took part in the protest. He said one or two paint bombs hit the consulate building near Amsterdam's famous Rijksmuseum. A spokesman for the demonstrators said the protest was aimed at ``recent U.S. interventionist conduct in Nicaragua, Panama ... and an imminent action in El Salvador.'' The spokesman was referring to U.S. government support for the anti-Sandinista forces in Nicaragua and the U.S. invasion of Panama in December. In El Salvador, the United States backs the government in its civil war with leftist insurgents. The spokesman did not elaborate on his claim of ``imminent action'' in that country.
AP900212-0090 	X	A Coast Guard monitor on duty the night of the Exxon Valdez disaster testified today he could not have ordered the ship to change course even if he had seen it was headed for a rocky reef. Gordon Taylor said it would have taken the authority of a higher Coast Guard officer to order Joseph Hazelwood to make a course change. However, Taylor said the matter never became an issue because the Exxon Valdez vanished from his radar screen shortly before the accident. Taylor said he struggled to adjust the radar but could not bring the ship back into his viewing range. ``So when you left, it was off the screen, and you didn't see it anymore?'' asked Hazelwood attorney Dick Madson. ``That's correct,'' said Taylor, who went off duty at 11:45 p.m. on March 23. He said he notified the monitor who took over for him that the vessel was outbound but had disappeared from the radar. Madson has maintained that Taylor and Bruce Blandford, the monitor who replaced Taylor at the Coast Guard's Vessel Traffic System on the night of the Exxon Valdez disaster, were not watching the radar screen. Madson says if they had alerted Hazelwood that his ship was moving perilously close to jagged Bligh Reef, the accident never would have happened. Scoring a key legal point, Madson won permission to raise the Coast Guard responsiblity issue after Superior Court Judge Karl Johnstone initially vetoed the tactic. Johnstone reversed himself after considering case law on the issue. But the lawyer was barred from exploring another matter _ whether Taylor and Blandford were using drugs or alcohol on March 24 when the accident happened. Blood and urine tests administered between 15 hours and three days after the grounding showed that Blandford had a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit for driving and Taylor showed a small quantity of marijuana in his system. Johnstone called the marijuana issue ``a red herring'' but said he would reconsider admitting the alcohol test if Madson can show its relevance. Blandford's alcohol reading of .203 was recorded 15 hours after the Exxon Valdez went aground in scenic Prince William Sound. Hazelwood, 43, of Huntington, N.Y., is being tried on a felony charge of second-degree criminal mischief and misdemeanor charges of reckless endangerment, negligent discharge of oil and operating a vessel while intoxicated. The maximum penalty for conviction on all counts is seven years, three months in prison and $61,000 in fines. Prosecution witnesses have said Hazelwood spent much of the day before the accident drinking vodka at a bar in the port town of Valdez. But his shipmates said Hazelwood didn't appear drunk and appeared in command of his ship. The 987-foot tanker, which ripped open on the rocky reef, spilled nearly 11 million gallons of Alaska crude oil, killing thousands of birds and other wildlife and blackening hundreds of miles of rocky coast. Exxon says the cleanup has cost $2 billion so far.
AP881001-0010 	X	The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee says presidents should be sworn in earlier because the 2{ months between Election Day and Inauguration Day creates an unnecessary ``period of vulnerability.'' ``The incumbent president no longer has real political authority and the incoming president lacks constitutional authority, and the whole world knows it,'' Sen. Claiborne Pell, D-R.I., said Friday. ``It is a period of vulnerability which can and should be eliminated.'' In a Senate floor speech introducing a resolution for a constitutional amendment, Pell said the change would eliminate ``10 weeks of crippled leadership'' and avoid an ``unhealthy and unnecessary situation.'' The senator wants to move up Inauguration Day for the president and vice president from Jan. 20 to Nov. 20. The constitutional amendment also would move the swearing-in day for Congress from Jan. 3 to Nov. 15. Pell has introduced similar measures in the past. With time quickly running out in this session of Congress, action this year appears unlikely. From 1793 to 1933, the swearing in of new presidents took place March 4. The 20th Amendment pushed it back to Jan. 20 beginning in 1937. Pell, who introduced the resolution along with Sen. William V. Roth Jr., R-Del., said the move also would avoid `@lame duck'' administrations in which officials might be ``tempted to expend funds, make contracts and grants and promulgate regulations that may be either politically motivated or inspired by sheer self-interest.'' Pell said the development of voting machines and instant election result tabulations eliminates the justification for the long lag time between elections and inaugurations.
AP900515-0072 	X	An attorney for retired Ohio autoworker John Demjanjuk today challenged the admissibility of two photo lineups used to identify Demjanjuk as a sadistic death camp guard and convict him of Nazi war drimes. In his appeal before a five-judge Supreme Court panel, defense attorney Yoram Sheftel also attacked the trial court for failing to halt prejudicial press coverage of the trial. A three-judge panel in April 1988 found Demjanjuk, 70, guilty of committing crimes against humanity and crimes against Jews, and sentenced him to death. The trial judges accepted the testimony of survivors who identified the Ukrainian-born Demjanjuk with the help of photographs as ``Ivan the Terrible,'' who operated gas chambers at Treblinka death camp in Nazi-occupied Poland. More than 850,000 Jews perished there in 1942-43. Demjanjuk claims he is a victim of mistaken identity and that he was incarcerated in German POW camps after being captured while serving in the Soviet Red Army. Sheftel began the appeal Monday by challenging the Israeli court's jurisdiction to try an extradited suspect for war crimes and accusing the trial judges of being biased. He expanded on the bias argument today, blaming the judges for the emotional atmosphere surrounding the trial, including a Dec. 1, 1988, attack in which a Holocaust survivor threw acid in Sheftel's face at a funeral. Sheftel suffered an eye injury and still wears dark glasses as a result. He said the assault followed a spate of inflammatory press accounts of the trial. He cited an article that questioned his credibility and readiness as a Jew to defend an alleged Nazi collaborator. ``This was a bloodletting report,'' Sheftel said. ``The court didn't intercede or say anything. After such reports, the message is that such an action (attacking Sheftel) would be heroic.'' He also disputed the admissibility of two photograph lineups. Aided by the photos, eight Treblinka survivors singled out Demjanjuk as the notorious guard ``Ivan.'' Sheftel displayed a poster containing blowups of the lineups and said there were seven flaws in the identifiction process. One lineup involved a page containing eight photographs, including a 1951 shot of Demjanjuk that he had filed with his application for a U.S. immigration visa. The second included a disputed picture of Demjanjuk from a 1942 identity card that the Soviet Union supplied to Israel. It purportedly is from the Trawniki camp, which trained death camp guards. Sheftel has claimed the Trawniki document is a forgery. He said today the photographs were improperly shown to the survivors. Demjanjuk, for example, was never called for an in-person lineup, Sheftel argued. He noted rulings in both the United States and Israel that a suspect should participate in person in criminal indentificaton procedures. Only if a suspect refuses should photographs be used, Sheftel said. Another flaw, Sheftel said, was that none of the other head shots in either lineup resembled Demjanjuk. Hair color, shape and size of faces were clearly different. ``It is like putting a photograph of a black suspect among seven white men. Where have you heard of such a thing?'' Sheftel said. Demjanjuk, wearing a brown prison uniform, sat flanked by two police guards and listened grim-faced to the daylong proceedings. His wife, Vera, and his son, John Jr., watched from the front row. Asked about the appeal's chances, John Jr. said he was hopeful. ``They have the courage to make a decision based on the facts and the law, and the conviction will be overturned.''
AP900816-0222 	X	Renewed worries about inflation and the Persian Gulf squeezed the financial markets Thursday, pushing stocks, bonds and the dollar lower. Gold and oil prices rose. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks fell 66.83 to 2,681.44, its lowest close since the Mideast crisis began. Stocks declining in price outnumbered advancing ones by about 4 to 1 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks. Analysts blamed a worse-than-expected government report on inflation and disappointing news about the Iraq-U.S. standoff. The Dow index dropped about 20 points after the Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose 0.4 percent, higher than the 0.3 percent most economists expected. Meanwhile, Iraqi President Saddam Hussein charged that President Bush has lied to the American people about the Middle East situation, and warned there would be American deaths in the region if the United States continues to intervene. Also, President Bush met with Jordan's King Hussein, but afterward the king said he had not made up his mind about complying with a United Nations embargo of Iraq. In addition, the king said he did not carry a letter from the Iraqi leader to Bush, as was previously reported. ``The market was expecting something positive from the meeting,'' said Yuichi Abe, a vice president in the New York office of Nikko Securities Co. International Inc. In the credit markets, interest rates rose and prices fell in nervous trading. The Treasury's key 30-year bond fell 1 23-32 points, or $17.19 per $1,000 in face amount. The bond's yield jumped to 8.92 percent from 8.76 percent late Wednesday. It was the highest yield since it flirted with 9 percent in early May. ``What you're looking at here are straight worries about inflation,'' said Lincoln Anderson, an economist for Bear Stearns & Co., a Wall Street investment firm. ``The CPI report was not a good one.'' Bond investors generally sell on bad inflation news because higher prices erode the value of fixed-income investments. In the oil market, the September contract for U.S. crude closed up 90 cents at $27.36 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, mostly on disappointment over King Hussein's mission. Crude oil's recent rise had stalled earlier in the week on news that King Hussein would meet with Bush and initiate a peaceful solution to the Gulf situation. The dollar, which seems to have lost some of its allure as a safe haven, tumbled to an all-time low against the German mark during U.S. trading. The dollar was quoted at 1.5525 marks in late New York trading, down from 1.566 marks late Wednesday and from 1.5645 marks Tuesday, the previous low in the modern mark's 42-year history. Gold prices moved in the other direction, rising $6.60 an ounce to $409.20 on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
AP880308-0204 	X	Winter wheat planted last fall for harvest this summer is in ``mostly good to fair'' condition in some of the nation's major production areas, a government report said Tuesday. The Joint Agricultural Weather Facility said wheat during the week of Feb. 29 through March 6 was not quite in such good shape in the northern Great Plains, Delta and Rocky Mountain states, however. ``Snow cover was virtually nonexistent in the central and northern Great Plain and Rocky Mountain states, but mild temperatures kept damage at a minimum,'' the report said. ``Snow, preceding freezing temperatures, prevented severe winter damage to small grain (including wheat) in eastern Kansas, northern Oklahoma, Illinois, Missouri, Indiana and Ohio.'' Crop development by early March ranged from greening in Colorado to jointing of plants in Mississippi and Oklahoma, and heading in Arizona, the report said. The facility is operated by the departments of Commerce and Agriculture. Reports do not forecast actual production of crops, only the condition of fields and plants.
AP880829-0074 	X	Some 2,200 registered nurses from six hospitals will return to work this week after ending a four-week strike that at one point involved 4,000 nurses from eight hospitals, union officials said. Of the 1,200 California Nurses Association members who voted Sunday, 77 percent approved a new contract, which offers a 21 percent wage increase over 34 months. The pact differs little from one rejected 11 days ago. The nurses are set to return to work on Wednesday, said CNA spokeswoman Maureen Anderson. Although 10 other hospitals were unaffected by the walkout, hundreds of patients were inconvenienced as some of the struck medical facilities closed emergency rooms, delayed surgeries and consolidated many other services. While many nurses weren't elated with the agreement, they said they demonstrated labor solidarity. ``We've put this message out to the hospitals: That nurses are serious about the issues facing them and we intend to be listened to,'' said Mary Scheib, a CNA nurse at Mt. Zion Hospital. ``We're going to be continuing our efforts (to improve pay and working conditions) when we go back to work,'' she added. ``Today is really day one of organizing for 1991, when the contract expires.'' A proposed CNA contract voted down Aug. 19 by a 2-1 margin offered 20 percent over 36 months. CNA went into the strike Aug. 2 demanding a 21 percent wage increase over two years. Karen Henry, chief negotiator for Affiliated Hospitals, the group representing the affected medical facilities, said Sunday that the CNA contract ``accomplished the hospitals' bargaining objectives.'' She defined that mainly as avoiding large pay raises in a two-year period. Under the CNA contract, a dayshift nurse at top scale will make $21.99 an hour by the end of the contract, or $45,700 annually. The 1,700 members of Local 250 of the Hospital and Health Care Workers Union, who went on strike July 26, began returning to work Wednesday. They walked out mainly over health benefits. CNA's negotiating committee unanimously endorsed the latest contract. The latest proposal was an unsolicited offer submitted Friday to Affiliated. The two sides had not met at the bargaining table for nearly a week. CNA nurses struck at Children's, Marshal Hale, St. Mary's, St. Francis and Mount Zion hospitals in San Francisco and Seton Medical Center in Daly City. Local 250 accepted a contract last week that provides up to 6 percent pay raises for nurses and some other hospital workers over two years. Some other workers will not receive raises, but bonuses ranging up to $300 by the end of the contract. About 100 nurses and service workers remain on strike at French Hospital, where talks have been held separately. A settlement there is expected to be routine.
AP880324-0172 	X	The former Armed Forces Radio disc jockey portrayed by Robin Williams in the hit movie ``Good Morning, Vietnam'' says Hollywood distorted his original idea for a screenplay and his life. ``No, I did not try to meet girls on street corners. No, I did not teach American slang to the Vietnamese. No, I was not thrown out of Vietnam and to my knowledge, no Vietnamese friends of mine were Viet Cong,'' Adrian Cronauer told students Wednesday at Mississippi State University. But he praised Williams' performance, which has been nominated for an Academy Award. Cronauer, 49, a law student at the University of Pennslyvania, bellowed ``Goooood Mooooorning, Vietnam'' at the beginning of his popular ``Dawn Buster'' 1965 Saigon radio show. His trademark sign-on was adopted by succeeding Saigon DJs, including ``Wheel Of Fortune'' host Pat Sajak.
AP901124-0058 	X	Northwest Airlines is offering flight attendants two free first-class tickets anywhere in the world for reporting as scheduled for holiday duty. It's an attempt to cut down on sick calls over the holidays. In a recent letter to workers, Northwest in-flight services chief Lloyd Warren thanked flight attendants in advance for reporting for holiday duty. And as ``a token of our thanks,'' Warren said, two free round-trip tickets in first-class seating would be given to flight attendants who report as scheduled between Dec. 15 and Jan. 1. Northwest employs more than 8,000 flight attendants. To qualify, workers must be scheduled for flights on Dec. 24, Dec. 25, Dec. 31 or Jan. 1. Service charges that normally accompany worker flight-pass privileges would be waived. Northwest spokesman Doug Miller said that last year, flight attendants were offered a $100 cash bonus for working through the holidays. Miller said the offer does not reflect a problem with holiday sick leave in the ranks of flight attendants. ``It's just that when we're in crunch time like we are around the holidays, every single person is key to our success,'' he said.
AP881111-0008 	X	A lament by Connecticut's poet laureate about his village grocery store may have lost the store. ``November Ode,'' a poem by James Merrill, winner of the Pulitzer Prize, has won him some admirers in the old center of this eastern Connecticut community, but also the animosity of the grocer and others who found his portrayal unfair. Merrill said his work was, in many ways, a generalized commentary on how community life everywhere has declined with the disappearance of small neighborhood stores and shops. While several people called him to say how the poem ``expressed their own feelings'' about life in Stonington, Merrill said the controversy has left him ``wondering if I shouldn't go back to incomprehensibility, which I have been accused of.'' To those who live in Stonington borough, which has fewer than 3,000 residents, there is no mistaking the ``dear dim local grocery'' mentioned unflatteringly in the poem. It is Roland's Market, the borough's last grocery. There are also other references to life in the borough, which was established in 1752 and is part of the town. Once a fishing village and major port, its late 18th- and early 19th-century homes and shops have been rehabilitated and there are a number of antique stores for visitors. Ronald Albamonti, 39, is the first to admit that life is changing in the borough, and that at the market, ``things just haven't been the same'' since his father, Roland, died last year and he took over. But he said he was deeply hurt by Merrill's poem, which he views as a personal attack. The poem reads, in part: ``The son picked to succeed him never lived up to the seigneurial old man. Yet his clientele kept brightly toeing the line of least resistance, taking with a grain of salt (Aisle 3) all talk of heavy drugs and light women, closing Republican eyes to dead mouse and decimated shelves, the padded statement ...'' With three large supermarkets within 12 miles of the borough, Albamonti said he decided to make Roland's more like a deli than a full-service grocery. The poem was the final straw for Albamonti. Gauging that the public generally shared the sentiments expressed by Merrill, Albamonti said he reached a tenative agreement this week to sell the business and the property. If the store is closed and the two-story building used for another purpose, Merrill's poem, written a year ago and published last month in The New York Review of Books, will have proven itself to be prophetic: ``Plainer than day was how, next summer, this prime square footage would be developed in the usual way.'' Merrill, who lives only two blocks from Roland's Market but hasn't been back to the store since the poem controversy erupted, moved to Stonington from New York City in the 1950s, partly to be part of a small community. At Keane's newstand a block from Roland's Market, Francis Keane, 78, who has been selling newspapers in the borough for 50 years, said some customers thought Merrill had been unfair in his criticism of Ronald Albamonti. At the same time, he said he agreed Merrill was right when he spoke of the decline of community life. ``It was a reflection of what is happening in small towns. It is a different environment now. Years ago everybody was more friendly and stayed in town. Now they come here just to sleep and eat and then go off in their cars to work,'' he said.
AP881006-0128 	X	With memories still fresh of a bridge collapsing into a rushing creek and killing 10 people, Gov. Mario Cuomo is asking voters to approve the biggest bond issue in New York history to repair roads. The $3 billion bond issue on the ballot Nov. 8 comes five years after voters agreed to Cuomo's proposal to borrow $1.25 billion to ``rebuild New York.'' With the money from the earlier bond issue due to run out in March, New York has 1,600 miles of highway deemed to be in poor condition by its inspectors, 660 miles of roads too small to handle the traffic and 7,400 bridges rated unacceptable. ``Everybody concedes the need,'' said Cuomo. ``I hear no one arguing (against) the absolute necessity of investing billions and billions of dollars in our roads and bridges.'' A coalition of construction and labor officials supporting the bond issue is reminding voters of the April 1987 collapse of the New York State Thruway bridge over the rushing Schoharie Creek west of Albany. ``Where will you be the next time the worst case happens?'' asks one TV commercial. Conservative rural upstate politicians, the New York chapter of the American Automobile Association and the New York Farm Bureau are among the opponents of the bond issue. They agree roads are in disrepair but are pressing for a pay-as-you-go system with New York dedicating all highway, gasoline and automobile-related taxes and fees to road construction and repair. ``Borrowing begets borrowing,'' said James McGowan, vice president of the 1.8 million-member state AAA. ``The '83 bond issue begat the '88 bond issue. Then where do we go? The next logical step is for a $7.5 billion bond issue in 1992 and then maybe a $15 billion bond issue in 1995. That's the way we're going.'' Cuomo has told New Yorkers that if enough of them don't vote ``yes'' in November, they may face an increase of as much as 20 cents on New York's 8-cent-per-gallon gasoline tax to pay for needed highway work. AAA officials contend taxes will have to be raised anyway. ``The enormous costs of the debt service from the bonds are going to have be borne by somebody,'' said McGowan.
AP881115-0063 	X	Researchers have discovered small quantities of a radioactive substance in material dredged from Savannah Harbor about 100 miles downstream from the Savannah River Plant. Cesium 137, a radioactive isotope, was found in material taken from the harbor and dumped on the South Carolina side of the Savannah River, which forms the border with Georgia. Tests found tiny amounts of the material, insufficient to create a health hazard, The Charleston News & Courier reported today. The tests were done for the South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department by researchers at the University of Georgia. The wildlife agency is sampling dredged material for pollutants because of water quality problems believed to be caused by industrial discharges into the river, agency officials said. Cesium 137 is produced as a byproduct of nuclear fission, and is generally associated with radioactive waste. It emits beta and gamma radiation, both of which can produce a variety of ill effects, depending on the dosage. Lou Gordell, acting director of the U.S. Department of Energy's environmental division at the nuclear plant, said he had not been informed of the study results, but acknowledged Monday that the material probably originated at the Savannah nuclear plant. The complex near Aiken produces the radioactive materials plutonium and tritium for nuclear weapons. The government-owned plant has been under scrutiny in recent months since it was revealed that a series of accidents at the site over the past 30 years went unreported to the public. Gordell said sediment tests in Savannah Harbor for a 1984 study showed traces of Cesium 137, and that recent monitoring upstream found similar traces both in the water and river sediment. Much of the material leaked from SRP apparatus in the 1950s, but some is the result of continued discharge into the river, Gordell said. The level of contamination is far below EPA's maximum allowable level for drinking water, he said. Savannah and Beaufort-Jasper counties pump water from the Savannah River for drinking water. Traces of tritium also are found in the river, but also are below the maximum allowable levels, Gordell said. Cesium 137, with a half-life of 30 years, persists in the environment longer than tritium, with a half-life of 12 years. A half-life is the time it takes half the atoms of a radioactive material to disintegrate. The Savannah Harbor is periodically dredged by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to maintain its depth for the port of Savannah.
AP881214-0143 	X	The Soviet Union has notified the United States it is destroying radar facilities at Gomel that President Reagan told Congress violated a superpower arms control treaty, the State Department said Wednesday. However, the installation at Krasnoyarsk remains in dispute. Department spokesman Charles E. Redman again called for its destruction. Redman said the United States would not reciprocate for the Soviet decision on Gomel. ``A violation is a violation,'' he said. Reagan claimed in his report to Congress last week that portable equipment had been moved to the Byelorussian city in violation of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. The treaty limits U.S. and Soviet radar on the theory a nuclear attack is less likely to be launched if devastating retaliation would follow. Redman said destruction of the Gomel radar ``when fully carried out and verified will satisfy our concerns regarding the illegal deployment of these radars.'' The Soviets informed the United States that destruction of the Gomel installation began last Friday, according to a U.S. official who spoke only on condition of anonymity. Redman said the Soviet decision underscored the importance of continuing the Reagan administration's policy ``of firmness'' with regard to Soviet treaty violations. ``However,'' Redman said, ``the more crucial issue of the Soviet violation at Krasnoyarsk remains unresolved. The Krasnoyarsk radar is a significant violation of a central element of the ABM treaty, which will continue to make it impossible for the US to conclude any future strategic arms agreements.'' The two sides had agreed in Geneva last month to resume work on a treaty o sharply reduce long-range nuclear bombers, missiles and submarines. Redman rejected again a Soviet proposal to turn the Krasnoyarsk installation in Siberia into an international space research facility. ``It would not remove the treaty-prohibited radar capability,'' he said. ``Nor would it restore the lead time'' the Reagan administration contends Krasnoyarsk would provide for mounting a defense against U.S. ballistic missiles. ``What the Soviets propose would allow them to move forward with work on the illegal radar, with no guarantees that the `international scientists' could not be expelled at a moment's notice,'' Redman said.
AP880414-0258 	X	U.S. Commerce Secretary C. William Verity on Thursday voiced opposition to suggestions that the Soviet Union should be allowed to join an international trade organization. But Verity said the U.S. government's opposition to Soviet participation in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) could change as the Soviet Union moves toward a market-oriented economy. Some American businessmen supported admitting the Soviets to the group. Verity spoke at a news conference after signing a protocol endorsing joint Soviet-American business ventures. In September 1986, the United States led the opposition to a Soviet effort to join GATT, a 95-nation group that sets international trading rules. ``It would be inappropriate, perhaps impossible, to make any progress if the Soviet Union was a member of GATT,'' Verity said. But he added that ``in time, as the Soviet Union moves towards a market economy, that would be different.'' Verity said Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev's ``perestroika,'' or restructuring program, is designed ``to move the Soviet economy toward a market economy, and that is important to the Soviet side and to all other nations of the world who would like to see movement in that direction.'' Verity's trip to Moscow comes in advance of President Reagan's five-day visit to the Soviet capital scheduled to begin May 29. Trade frequently comes up during summit talks with Gorbachev, who wants access to American technology and services to help improve his country's ailing economy. Verity and Alexander I. Kachanov, Soviet first deputy minister of foreign economic relations, signed a protocol adding joint ventures to the types of cooperation encouraged by a 1974 trade agreement. Verity's three days of talks with Kachanov coincided with a Moscow meeting of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council, which attracted more than 400 American businessmen. Seven major U.S. companies said Wednesday they formed a consortium to work out business deals with the Soviets. Another company, Honeywell Inc., announced a joint venture on Monday to supply automated production controls for Soviet fertilizer factories. Verity said he stressed to Soviet officials that improvements in trade depended on Soviet easing of emigration restrictions. He said the Soviets had agreed to ``marketing glasnost,'' using the Russian word for openness that characterizes Gorbachev's drive for freer expression.
AP901128-0085 	X	Nov. 24 The Capital Times, Madison, Wis., on Congress: Here's a saga of pettiness and arrogance run amok. Last February, the in-house magazine of the National Park Service contained a column by the agency's legislative specialist. The column began by needling Congress for raising its members' pay. That offended the congressional staff member who handles the agency's budget. When Park Service officials learned that Neal Sigmon of the House Appropriations Interior subcommittee was upset, they went out of their way to apologize to him. A lot of good it did them. When the House and Senate worked out a compromise version of the Interior appropriations bill for the coming year, $75,000 was deleted from the Park Service budget - the $75,000 allocated for publishing the magazine. On the record, everyone claims to be mystified by the deletion. Off the record, one congressional staff member said, ``From time to time, signals are sent to agencies when they've been bad.'' It did not seem to matter whether or not the in-house newsletter served a useful function in communicating with Park Service employees who, of course, are scattered all across the country. All that mattered was that a congressional staff member felt that congressional pride had been wounded. --- Nov. 22 Roswell (N.M.) Daily Record on Congress: Despite all the talk about American voters throwing the bums out of Congress on Nov. 6, fully 96 percent of House members and 97 percent of senators who sought re-election were victorious. ... Members of Congress are so entrenched that there literally is more turnover in the Supreme Soviet. And this undemocratic situation will continue as long as big money corrupts the electoral process. ... The cleanest way to put an end to vote buying by special interests is to outlaw political action committee contributions in federal elections. If a flat ban proves to be unconstitutional, there should at least be strictly enforced caps on such contributions. No less important a reform is shutting down the soft-money system that enables political parties to launder large contributions through generic get-out-the-vote drives. These efforts are unfair because they almost always benefit incumbents. Also, let's end the widespread abuse of the congressional frank, or free mailers, at election time. --- Nov. 22 Daily News, Los Angeles, on Michael Milken: Michael R. Milken learned a tough lesson ... : The more power you get, the more you are obliged not to abuse it. U.S. District Judge Kimba M. Wood said essentially that in handing out a stiff, but appropriate, sentence of 10 years in prison to the former junk-bond financier, who pleaded guilty earlier this year to six felony charges of securities fraud and conspiracy. ... Legitimate investors can do without the contempt for the rules that Milken brought with him in his pursuit of profit. Whatever contributions Milken made to the financial world, those were offset by a combination of greed, ego and deceit that turned securities markets into personal playgrounds for the unethical. --- Nov. 24 The Providence (R.I.) Journal-Bulletin on legal services: A recent issue of The Economist, the British news weekly, said of the ever-growing demand for legal services in the United States: ``Much of the `demand' for the output of this swollen industry is created not by clients but by other members of the (lawsuit) industry, as if doctors went around injecting diseases for other doctors to cure. Is this really a boost to living standards?'' That's a good question, to which we suspect the answer might be no. So it's a good sign for our economy that at least some big American companies are trying to do something about this disease. The same magazine enthusiastically reports that earlier this month the chief executives of 17 of the country's biggest companies sent out a group letter urging their fellow executives ``to negotiate and settle (disputes) early before litigation takes on a life of its own.'' ... The endless use of lawsuits, threatened and actual, to resolve disputes in our society has diverted time and money from what are usually more productive ends. Let us hope that in taking a pledge to try to avoid litigation, big business provides some useful suggestions to individuals of the numerous ways in which arguments can be resolved to everyone's satisfaction without lawsuits. An America with less litigation would probably be a richer and happier country. ---
AP900324-0007 	X	The Bush administration has its first payoff after 10 months of pressuring the Japanese to buy more American products, but members of Congress are warning much more needs to be done. The administration announced Friday an agreement designed to boost sales of U.S.-manufactured supercomputers in Japan by removing some restrictions imposed by the Japanese government. The agreement, which is expected to be formally signed in April, should open a $130 million-market for supercomputers purchased by Japanese universities and other government agencies. The breakthrough came late Thursday night following two days of intensive negotiations. U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills said the new pact ``should give us full and effective access'' to the Japanese government market. It marked the first success for the administration since it put Japan on a ``hit list'' last April of countries accused of erecting unfair barriers to sales of American goods. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, in Los Angeles for talks Friday with Japanese Finance Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto, said that with the agreement, ``We're showing that we can make some progress.'' Supercomputers were among three product areas singled out for negotiations. Little progress has been reported so far in talks on American-made satellites and wood products. ``Are (supercomputer concessions) all we want?'' Brady said. ``No. Are we going to get more? Yes. When, I can't say. I hope soon.'' The Japanese are facing a June 19 deadline to show a willingness to open their markets or face possible U.S. retaliation in increased tariffs on Japanese products sold in America. Members of Congress have been pushing the administration to take a tougher line in the trade negotiations with Tokyo, pointing to the $49 billion deficit the United States is running with Japan. That is close to half the total U.S. trade deficit last year. Sen. John Danforth, R-Mo., said the supercomputer agreement was encouraging but would have to be followed by increased sales. ``Japan must recognize that promises without performance are simply unacceptable,'' Danforth said. Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., noted a 1987 agreement by the Japanese to buy more American supercomputers had not produced results. He said U.S. negotiators shouldn't declare victory too soon. ``Nonetheless, progress is always encouraging. I hope this is a sign that the United States and Japan can jointly work out their trade frictions,'' said Baucus, who is chairman of the Senate Finance trade subcommittee. In addition to the product talks, the administration is conducting separate discussions on broader structural impediments to trade such as exclusionary Japanese business practices. Brady met with Hashimoto as a follow-up to trade discussions held by President Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu. A U.S. trade official, briefing reporters in Washington on Friday, said the Japanese showed new urgency in the latest round of computer talks, apparently reflecting the impact of the Bush-Kaifu meeting. ``Their negotiators came with instructions to make a deal,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``We hope the Japanese will perceive the same kind of guidance in the other issues.'' Negotiators handling the structural impediments talks met at a remote hideaway in the Virginia countryside earlier this week in advance of more formal discussions in Washington April 2-3. However, U.S. officials said the discussions near Warrenton, Va., failed to make any progress. There have been reports from Tokyo that Kaifu is preparing trade concessions in these areas in hopes of dampening growing protectionist sentiment in Congress. Under the computer agreement announced Friday, the Japanese promised to open the procurement process for supercomputers to foreign firms and to base government purchase decisions on quality as well as price.
AP881118-0010 	X	The head of America's Roman Catholic bishops declared, ``We are in a most serene time,'' even though they had just ended a week that included open dispute with the Vatican and revival of their sniping at the government. Archbishop John L. May of St. Louis was referring in particular on Thursday to the U.S. church's relations with Pope John Paul II and the Vatican. He pronounced the pope ``bullish on the church in the United States'' and dismissed public spats with Rome as merely ``signs of a church that is essentially open.'' In fact, he and fellow members of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops seemed little troubled by any of the controversy that swirled about them during their annual meeting that concluded Thursday. During the week, the bishops: _Took on the Soviet Union, decrying ``sustained and comprehensive'' religious persecution in Eastern Europe and encouraging the U.S. government to hold out prospects of better overall relations as an incentive to win greater religious freedom. _Blasted a U.S. immigration law they say leads employers to discriminate in hiring and firing Hispanics out of ignorance concerning potential penalties. _Criticized the Reagan administration for sending out thousands of foreclosure warnings to family farmers a week after the presidential election and just before the holiday season. _On their own turf, accepted but only grudgingly a Vatican intervention that kept them from voting on guidelines they had prepared for resolving disputes with theologians. _Approved rules for lay preachers that either, according to which bishop you asked, made it easier for lay men and women to preach during masses or took one more slap at Catholic women by reiterating that they may not give the main sermon interpreting the gospel. _Finally, sent back a Vatican draft document as ``unsuitable as a basis for discussion,'' thus rejecting both the scholarship of the draft and its contention that national bishops conferences have no real authority in the church. May had started the week by congratulating President-elect George Bush but then in the next breath assuring him the bishops would continue to speak out on public issues and not ``only in praise and appreciation.'' ``We are sometimes criticized for being too concerned about the world, of pursuing an agenda that in the minds of some critics is secular, leftist or in some way `ideological,''' May said. But he added that the pope's own example showed it is not possible to have ``too much social consciousness.'' On Wednesday, former conference president John Roach, bishop of St. Paul-Minneapolis, was asked about the arguing that preceded passage of the bishops' response to the Vatican document on conference authority, and about the relatively high number of ``no'' votes _ 59 among the 264 voting. He acknowledged differences of opinion within the organization, and suggested some of the negative votes might have included bishops getting a secret-vote chance to ``take a shot'' at the recent past presidents who prepared the response. But in proclaiming the bishops' serenity on Thursday, May said there was no big dispute with the Vatican. And he quoted the pope to support his own contention. ``The pope is bullish on the church in the United States _ that's what he says,'' May declared. In recent meetings with U.S. bishops, the pope had said, ``You are a superpower,'' May told reporters. He said the pope merely asked the Americans to weigh their words with the knowledge that ``the church in the United States has tremendous international influence, and the people of the world watch what is said there.'' ``There are disagreements from time to time'' with the Vatican, May said, but he added that he didn't see them ``as a tug-of-war or an ongoing fight or crisis or any of these words that are used.'' He said the pope often uses the term ``solidarity'' in regard to the church helping build bridges with the people of the world, including the most vulnerable as well as the powerful. This year's bishops' meeting was significant, May said, partly because ``we tried to demonstrate solidarity across an amazingly broad spectrum.'' Such efforts, he suggested, indicated the conference was alive and well, whatever the final draft of the Vatican document might say as to its theological authority.
AP900210-0046 	X	Eight bombs exploded today in the stronghold of Moslem militants seeking independence for the Himalayan valley of Kashmir, authorities said. No one was injured. Authorities said the blasts, at two banks, a post office and other shops and businesses, occurred hours after fire swept through a shopping complex in Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu-Kashmir state. No one claimed responsibilty for the explosions. Police said they believe the blaze was an accident since it occurred before dawn while a curfew was still in force. But other officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, blamed the fire and the bombs on the Jammu-Kashmir Liberation Front, the militant group leading the four-decade-old drive for the country's only Moslem majority state to secede from predominantly Hindu India. India routinely blames neighoring Pakistan of arming, training and supporting the militants. Pakistan denies the charge but says the Kashmiri people have a right to self-determination. At least 82 people have been killed since Jan. 20 in frequent street clashes between militants and security forces in Srinagar and adjoining areas. Most of the victims have been protesters shot while defying curfew imposed by government forces to stem rising violence. The curfew was relaxed during the day from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m., except in the areas where the explosions occurred. Kashmir, once a princely state, was divided between India and Pakistan after the two countries were partitioned following the end of British colonial rule in 1947. Srinagar and the surrounding areas of the valley became part of Jammu-Kashmir. Sixty-four percent of the state's 5 million people are Moslems, but Moslems make up 12 percent of the 880 million population nationwide. Kashmiri militants had earlier campaigned for union with Pakistan, which claims Kashmir because of its predominant Moslem population, but the militants now demand independence and the status of a neutral country. India has fought two wars with Pakistan over Kashmir.
AP900621-0117 	X	Atlantis' five astronauts on Thursday successfully completed a test that simulated an engine start and cut off moments before liftoff, NASA said. The shuttle is scheduled for a secret military mission in mid-July. NASA spokeswoman Lisa Malone said the two-day drill went smoothly. The countdown clock was stopped at four seconds before the mock liftoff. On Monday, Atlantis was moved from the hangar to the launch pad previously occupied by Columbia. Columbia was returned to the hangar last week for repair of a hydrogen leak that has delayed the shuttle's astronomy mission until at least mid-August. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration plans to conduct a special tanking test on Wednesday, partly filling Atlantis' external tank with super-cold liquid hydrogen to make sure there are no leaks. A similar test was performed on Columbia a week after a hydrogen leak was detected during fueling for a May 30 launch. A launch date for Atlantis will be set at the conclusion of a two-day flight readiness review on June 28 and 29.
AP880322-0040 	X	Strongman Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega has offered to resign before next year's presidential elections if opponents agree to talks with his regime, Panama's chief of state told his countrymen Monday. The opposition, whose general strike Monday paralyzed the nation, and the United States, which has kept up steady pressure to force a Noriega resignation, immediately rejected the general's offer. Elections are scheduled for May 1989. ``There will be no dialogue,'' said Aurelio Barria, the main leader of the National Civic Crusade, an anti-Noriega coalition of 200 business, professional, labor and political groups that called the indefinite work stoppage. He added: ``The general has to go _ immediately, not eventually. The strike will continue.'' Manuel Solis Palma, installed last month as the minister in charge of the presidency, made the announcement of Noriega's offer in a nationally broadcast speech. He said Noriega had given his word ``as an officer and a gentleman'' to step down if his conditions are met. In Washington, State Department spokesman Anita Stockman said: ``We believe the offer is little more than one, a ploy to attempt to legitimize the illegal Solis Palma regime by calling for negotiations between it and opposition groups and two, an effort on the part of Noriega to maintain direct or indirect control of the Panamanian Defense Forces. ``We stand by our previous view that Noriega should go, and the sooner the better for Panama.'' Noriega is under indictment on federal drug charges in Florida. The United States has dried up the flow of money to Panama, which uses the U.S. dollar as its currency, in the effort to force him out, and the economy is near collapse. The general put down a coup attempt by dissident officers last week and rejected a U.S. plan for him to leave Panama and live in Spain. In Washington, White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said earlier Monday that there were no plans for further talks with Noriega after the return of two administration officials from Panama City. ``I think they have a pretty good reading of the general's attitude,'' Fitzwater said. ``It didn't seem to include further conversations, at least at this point.'' The strike included Panama City's central commercial district, where the small shops that cater to the lower and middle classes had not joined previous shutdowns by wealthier businesmen and industrialists. ``We're sending Noriega a message,'' said the owner of a shoe store, who asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals. ``We hope he's listening.'' Noriega commands the military and police as head of the 15,000-member Defense Forces and is the power behind the civilian government. The secretary of the Panamanian Human Rights Foundation said a man died Monday of wounds suffered when he was hit in the face and chest by birdshot fired by police during disturbances in Panama City last Wednesday. It was the fourth protest-related death since anti-government demonstrations began last summer. Noriega's opponents hailed the strike as their greatest triumph so far. ``It's completely successful,'' said Guillermo Cochez, vice president of the Christian Democratic Party. ``Today has been a very special day ... in the capital as well as the provinces. We hope Noriega's advisers and the people surrounding him will help him to see the reality.'' ``The paralyzation is total in industry, finance and commerce,'' said Carlos Gonzalez de la Lastra, a business leader. Gonzalez and Cochez are directors, along with Barria, of the National Civic Crusade. Noriega made another move Monday to strengthen his control of the Defense Forces by announcing the promotions of 98 officers to ranks ranging from colonel to lieutenant. Among those promoted to colonel was Eros Ramiro Cal, who was named last week to replace Col. Leonidas Macias, the leader of the foiled coup, as the nation's police chief. The Defense Forces also said administrative discipline would be taken against 17 officers implicated in last Wednesday's attempted coup, but did not give details. It previously acknowledged eight or nine officers had joined in the attempt and said only five were being detained. Gustavo Gonzalez of the striking dockworkers said leaders of all major unions were summoned to a meeting Sunday night with Solis Palma, and told the military would not interfere if the strike remained peaceful. He said union leaders were told the government, which could not meet its payroll two weeks ago, also would be unable to cover semi-monthly paychecks due next week. Solis Palma replaced Eric Arturo Delvalle, who was dismissed by the legislature after he tried to fire Noriega and still is recognized by the United States as Panama's president. Delvalle is in hiding in Panama. Because the government has silenced opposition newspapers and broadcast stations, thousands of people went to work without knowing a strike had been called. Most went home when they found stores and offices closed. By midday, the city was a ghost town patrolled by helmeted soldiers in combat gear. The government said they were providing security for businesses that chose to open. Panama's ailing economy came apart after Feb. 25, when Delvalle tried to fire Noriega and the legislature fired Delvalle. Banks closed the following week and the government could not meet a $33 million payroll for 130,000 public employees. Washington has cut off economic and military aid and millions of dollars in Panamanian funds have been frozen in U.S. banks by legal actions.
AP900406-0224 	X	UAL Corp. directors announced today they have agreed to sell the parent of United Airlines to its employees for $201 a share, or $4.38 billion. The move heads off a threatened proxy fight with the company's largest shareholder but puts UAL back in a familiar position _ floating a deal with uncertain financing. Under the agreement, employees will exchange $155 in cash, $35 in UAL notes and an estimated $11 worth of securities in UAL subsidiary Covia Corp. for each UAL share. There was no immediate word on how the deal was to be financed. But a source close to the negotiations told The Associated Press the parties had no firm financing for the deal. UAL, parent of United Airlines, said it expects to conclude a final agreement promptly with United Employee Acquisition Corp., a new company organized by United's pilots, flight attendants and Machinists. At a news conference today in New York, representatives of the unions said the agreement calls for employees to give up $2 billion in concessions over five years, including $300 million in the first year and $500 million in the fifth year. The breakdown of ownership in the new company would be as follows: pilots owning about 37.9 percent; Machinists owning about 35.7 percent, non-union employees about 14.3 percent and flight attendants about 12 percent, the unions said. Machinists' union Vice President John Peterpaul predicted banks would look favorably on the deal. ``We're very optimistic about the financing,'' he said. UAL's largest shareholder, Coniston Partners, immediately called off its threatened proxy fight to oust the company's board at the April 26 annual shareholder meeting. Coniston holds an 11.8 percent stake. ``We think it's a fair deal,'' said Coniston general partner Paul Tierney, adding that employees and stockholders alike will gain from the agreement. The announcement met with a lukewarm reaction, however, from some analysts, who questioned how the deal would be financed and whether banks would be willing to back the bid without a strong management group behind it. The fate of UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf has been in doubt because of union indications made before today that they would dump Wolf in the event of an employee buyout. Pilots union head Frederick Dubinsky said in New York today that Wolf would be replaced. ``It's our intention to put together a top-notch senior management team ... and that will include a new (chief executive officer),'' he said. ``There's not a financed bid, and there's a lot of skepticism,'' said Edward Starkman, an airline analyst for PaineWebber Inc. in New York. UAL's stock opened up $3.50 a share at $169 on the New York Stock Exchange but by midday had slid back to $165.50, unchanged from Thursday. The agreement marks another chapter in a takeover saga that began in August when Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis made a $5.4 billion offer for the company. Davis said earlier this week he would not make another bid. But his initial offer sent United's pilots and management scrambling to come up with their own bid. In September, UAL directors accepted a $6.75 billion offer from the pilots, management and British Airways PLC that also included labor and wage concessions. The proposal was killed after the would-be purchasers were unable to line up enough financing. Failure of that deal contributed to a 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones industrial average on Oct. 13 and was seen as the end of the takeover boom of the 1980s. The stakes were raised again in November when Coniston announced it had amassed a large block of UAL stock and wanted to reduce the number of directors on the company's board. After UAL directors told financial advisers to consider a recapitalization plan in January, United's three labor unions proposed buying 75 percent of the stock. That proposal resulted in a $185-a-share, $3.8 billion buyout offer from the unions that the UAL board rejected two weeks ago. The bid was reportedly opposed strongly by UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf. Earlier this week, the board met at least twice by telephone, presumably on the buyout scenario. United is the nation's largest carrier behind American Airlines.
AP880531-0094 	X	The Supreme Court today let stand a $3.5 million punitive-damages award won by a San Diego gas station operator against Atlantic Richfield Co. The justices, without comment, refused to hear arguments that the award, believed to be the second largest of its kind ever upheld in California courts, is unconstitutionally excessive. John V. Nielsen had operated an ARCO station as an independent dealer for 12 years before agreeing to convert his service station to a mini-market and self-service station in 1979. His lawsuit charged ARCO with fraudulently misrepresenting facts in connection with the conversion of his station. A state court jury awarded Nielsen $525,788 in compensatory damages _ $79,061 in out-of-pocket losses, $396,727 in lost anticipated profits and $50,000 for emotional distress. The jury also awarded him $3.5 million in punitive damages against ARCO. A state appeals court upheld the award except for the emotional-distress damages, and the California Supreme Court refused to hear ARCO's appeal. In the appeal acted on today, lawyers for ARCO argued that the huge punitive-damages award _ seven times the compensatory-damages award _ violates the Eighth Amendment's ban on ``excessive fines.'' No court has ever applied that constitutional principle to non-criminal cases. The Supreme Court in May passed up deciding in a Mississippi case whether the constitutional ban on ``excessive fines'' can be applied to personal-injury lawsuits. Some state legislatures, reacting to soaring insurance rates, in recent years have imposed ceilings on how much money can be recovered in personal-injury lawsuits. Lawyers for ARCO urged the justices to ``send a clear signal that the state courts must stop these gargantuan awards.'' But lawyers for Nielsen argued that the ARCO appeal should not be granted because the oil company's lawyers had not raised the ``excessive fines'' argument in state courts. The justices refused to address the punitive-damages issue in the Mississippi case decided earlier this month after noting that it had not been raised in state courts. ARCO's appeal did not challenge the $475,000 compensatory-damages award won by Nielsen. The case is Atlantic Richfield vs. Nielsen, 87-1196.
AP900103-0138 	X	Julio Gallo, 79-year-old co-owner of the world's largest winery and one of the wealthiest men in America, was in stable condition Wednesday after a highway collision that killed a woman in the other car. Gallo and his 74-year-old wife, Eileen, were injured Tuesday as their car crossed the center line and struck another on the perilous, winding Pacheco Pass Highway about 80 miles south of San Francisco, the California Highway Patrol said. Investigating officer Tom Melden said an early probe of the wreck indicated Mrs. Gallo was driving and that the accident was her fault, but no charges were immediately filed. Alcohol did not appear to be a factor, he said. Gallo is president of the $1 billion-a-year, privately owned E&J Gallo Winery of Modesto; his brother, Ernest, is its chairman. The accident killed 27-year-old Sharon Kauk of San Jose, the Santa Clara County coroner's office reported. Her husband, Timothy, and 3-month-old son, Matthew, were airlifted to a Santa Clara Valley Medical Center. Kauk was listed in stable condition Wednesday with minor injuries, which weren't disclosed, said Medical Center spokesman George Pavicich. Matthew, who had been in a seat restraint, was in serious condition with undetermined injuries, he said. The child had earlier been reported unhurt. The Gallos were admitted to San Jose Medical Center. He was listed in stable condition Wednesday, upgraded from guarded condition, and she was under observation and being treated for a hand injury. Last October, Forbes magazine listed Julio Gallo as the nation's 283 richest man. In 1933, with $5,900 of pooled money, he and his brother started making wine with a library recipe. Today, with Julio as master winemaker and Ernest as the marketing chief, E&J Gallo bottles some 250,000 cases of wine a day and sells nearly 27 percent of the wine in the United States. Sixteen brands carry their logo. Gallo spokesman Dan Solomon said Ernest Gallo had been informed of the accident but had no comment.
AP881110-0138 	X	NASA has agreed to help pick a landing site on Mars for a robot craft that the Soviets will launch in 1994, American and Soviet scientists announced Thursday at a joint news conference. Samuel W. Keller, the head of the NASA delegation that has been negotiating with Soviet scientists, said that the Soviets have picked four candidate landing sites after the United States provided detailed maps of the Martian surface. Keller said the Soviets have now asked for more data and details on the candidate sites. He made the comment at a news conference marking the end of a week of negotiations between representatives of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and a delegation representing the Soviet solar system exploration program. The two groups met to work out areas of cooperation. Academician Valeriy L. Barsukov, head of the Soviet delegation, said that the four candidate Mars landing sites are all located within 30 degrees of the equator, but he declined to be more specific. NASA accumulated a vast amount of detailed images and maps of Mars during Viking spacecraft missions between 1975 and 1980. The Viking program put two craft in orbit of Mars and two on the surface. The Soviets plan to launch a spacecraft in 1994 that will orbit Mars and drop a lander that will scoop up soil and return it to Earth. Barsukov said that in picking a landing site the Soviets are considering such issues as a search for water and life, getting comprehensive samples of the geology, and gaining insights into the Martian evolution. Keller said other agreements reached during negotiations this week included: _Using the American Deep Space Network to help track and communicate with Soviet Mars probes. _An exchange of scientific personnel for work on specific missions. _An exchange of data on Venus, a planet extensively explored by both countries. Keller said the U.S.-Soviet studies are being combined to produce four detailed maps. _An exchange of lunar material gathered by the Apollo program for meteorite material collected by the Soviets. _An exchange of scientific instruments for use on planetary probes. Barsukov said that the Soviets feel that a manned Mars landing is ``inevitable'' and that it probably will take place in the middle of the next century. But before a manned mission to Mars is attempted, Barsukov said there probably will be new manned flights to the moon. He declined to elaborate.
AP900508-0097 	X	A cyclone packing winds up to 155 mph zeroed in on the south Indian coast Tuesday night, and authorites evacuated 100,000 families from a low-lying plain. Live electrical wires knocked down by winds preceeding the storm killed three people in the southern city of Madras, Indian news reports said. A building collapse injured eight others in the city, which is about 1,050 miles south of New Delhi. Waves 20 feet above normal crashed against parts of India's southeastern coast Tuesday night as the storm approached. Weather officials said the cyclone appeared to be stronger than a 1977 storm that killed thousands in southern India. Press Trust of India reported that 2,000 people had been evacuated from Madras. Weather officials said the core of the storm was 87 miles east of Madras over the Bay of Bengal and would cross into India by early Wednesday. A heavily populated, low-lying coastal plain in Andhra Pradesh state, just north of Tamil Nadu state, was expected to take the brunt of the storm. Authorities evacuated more than 100,000 families from the area and placed them in 300 camps inland, news reports said. Meteorologists said they expected ``very heavy damage to houses and installations and disruption of communications,'' Press Trust of India said. Andhra Pradesh's chief minister, M. Chenna Reddy, said army and navy helicopters and boats had been prepared for rescue operations. Heavy winds and rain were reported in several townships along the coastal plain, he said. One town, Kota, had seven inches of rain in the past 24 hours. Cyclones are the Indian Ocean's equivalent of hurricanes. They usually come in the spring just before the monsoon season begins.
AP900803-0064 	X	Harrison Ford worked as a carpenter before he struck gold as an actor, and finding a month to do nothing but make furniture is now one of his unfulfilled fantasies. Ford took up carpentry to pay the bills before landing a role in ``Star Wars'' in 1977, he tells US magazine in its Aug. 20 issue. His most recent foray into carpentry was about a year ago when he built a bed for his 3-year-old son, Malcolm. ``He watched me make it. But I'm sure he thinks that everybody's dad makes their bed,'' Ford said. Today, after an Oscar nomination for ``Witness'' and with the ``Indiana Jones'' series on his resume, he earns about $10 million per film. His latest is ``Presumed Innocent,'' in which he plays a big-city prosecutor accused of murdering a colleague-lover. Ford, 48, says carpentry is something he'd like more time for. ``I'd like to actually have a month and actually not do anything else but work on some furniture, work on honing those skills which I haven't practiced for so long,'' he said.
AP880321-0006 	X	``This is our last forest,'' said ranger Veerawat Dheeraprasart, pointing down a deep river valley. ``If the dam is built here, all this will vanish, and nobody will ever be able to replace it.'' Veerawat, the chief ranger of this rich wildlife sanctuary astride the border with Burma, is among thousands who have joined what unquestionably has become the greatest environmental battle in Thailand's history _ a fight to persuade the government not to build a dam in Thailand's last virgin forest. In a country that once was jungle-carpeted and teeming with wildlife, it is rare today to see a tract of undisturbed forest, an unpolluted river, white-handed gibbons or free-ranging tigers. Anti-dam groups have held rock concerts and demonstrations, some featuring life-like models of crucified animals, in their campaign. Newspapers are probing the issue in unprecedented detail. Former Prime Minister Kukrit Pramoj says the government could face a mass uprising if it approves the Nam Choan dam. The dam's proponents say Nam Choam needs to be built, in what is the largest remaining area of protected forest in Southeast Asia, to increase Thailand's energy supply by about 2 percent. The government's Electric Generating Authority of Thailand has described the proposed, 580-megawatt dam as the ``last possible exploitable source of hydro power'' in the country. It says it will create a reservoir that would also help irrigate farm land and assure water supplies in times of drought. The projected dam site is still hard to get to: a lurching, nine-hour drive over dirt roads from Bangkok, the Thai capital, followed by a four-hour jungle trek. When monsoons lash the countryside, a three-day elephant ride offers the only access. But dam opponents claim construction of Nam Choan, with the necessary approach roads, facilities and ensuing human encroachment, would spell doom for what they say is also the last area in Thailand large enough to ensure the survival of a wide variety of wildlife. Found in the Thung Yai and the adjacent Huay Kha Khaeng Sanctuary, an area about the size of Delaware, are large mammals, such as elephant, gaur, tiger and clouded leopard; some 350 species of birds, and a wide range of plant life. A number of the species are classified as endangered in Thailand, some worldwide. Foreign conservation groups have written letters expressing concern to the Thai government. In December, Britain's Prince Philip, head of the World Wildlife Fund, urged an independent environmental impact study before a final decision is reached. A similar plea came from more than 1,300 conservationists and scientists at the general assembly in February of the Swiss-based International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. The Electric Generating Authority maintains that Nam Choan would degrade only 4 percent of the area. But ranger Veerawat, who has served for 10 years in the sanctuary, contends the 47-mile-long dam reservoir would not only eradicate a biologically vital riverine valley but also disrupt the migration routes of animals, forcing them into smaller habitats. Opponents also dispute the 4 percent degradation estimate, saying that in Thailand roads built into remote, forested areas have inevitably been followed by massive logging, with collusion between businessmen and corrupt officials circumventing protective legislation. Loggers are already felling the rich forests along the park boundary. Pisit na Patalung, secretary-general of Wildlife Fund Thailand, one of some 30 private organizations opposing the proposal, said the dam issue has raised an environmental awareness among Thais. Until recent years, the public appeared apathetic as the country's once teeming wildlife was slaughtered and forests that blanketed about 70 percent of the country a generation ago were reduced to around 15 percent of total area today. The dam was first proposed in the early 1970s but plans were shelved in 1983 in wake of protests and charges that environmental impact studies were sloppy and improper. In 1986, the Electric Generating Authority asked that the project be reconsidered and the government appointed a 40-man committee headed by Deputy Prime Minister Thienchai Sirisamphan to come up with a decision, which is expected soon. Some opponents believe government leaders will be impressed by their arguments that Thailand now has enough alternate energy sources, including offshore natural gas and lignite, to scrap the dam proposal. Others, however, feel that too many key bureaucrats and politicians are still little concerned over environmental problems. Another wildlife ranger, Sueb Nakhasathien, didn't sound optimistic. ``Thais haven't yet put a price on the environment,'' he said. ``They don't realize that trees and water have a price, that wildlife has a price.''
AP881013-0303 	X	The dollar sank today and interest rates rose after the government reported a jump in the nation's trade deficit to $12.2 billion. The stock market defied pessimism, though. Prices were mixed in early trading and the Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks was 6.03 points higher at 2,132.29 an hour after the New York Stock Exchange opening. A record level of American exports was swamped by an all-time high in imports, the Commerce Department announced. The imbalance between what the United States imports and what it sells abroad climbed by $2.7 billion over a July deficit of $9.5 billion. The July figure had been the smallest monthly imbalance in more than three years. Economists had expected an increase for August, but the actual result was worse than the $11.3 billion imbalance many forecasters had predicted. From the point of view of inflation-wary investors, the combination of strong exports and strong imports was ``probably the worst combination you could get'' because it signals possible overheating of the economy, said Michael Moran, chief economist of Daiwa Securities America Inc. Even before the figures were released, financial markets headed lower because of unease over what the government would report. The Dow Jones industrial average fell by 30.23 points on Wednesday, its biggest decline in nearly two months. The dollar's decline was not huge because the dollar had already fallen steadily this week in response to investors' fears of a bad trade number. A big deficit increases the likelihood that the dollar will need to decline to make American goods cheaper in world markets. Moments after the release of trade figures at 8:30 a.m. EDT, the dollar fell to just above 126 Japanese yen and less than 1.82 West German marks. But traders had second thoughts and the currency recovered part of its lost ground. Two hours after the trade figures' release, the dollar was traded at a little over 127 yen and under 1.82 marks, down from more than 129 yen and 1.83 marks Wednesday. The dollar has now retreated to its levels of late June and early July. Long-term interest rates rose. That reflected investors' concerns about inflation and a declining dollar, which would prompt investors to switch money from dollars into other currencies. The yield on the Treasury's 30-year Treasury bond, a key measure of long-term rates, rose to 8.95 percent from 8.90 percent late Wednesday. That reflected a decline in its price as inflation-wary bondholders sold the securities.
AP900323-0196 	X	The U.S. dollar was slightly lower in European trading this morning as attention turned to other major currencies. Gold prices were slightly higher. ``There is no evidence of a trend in the dollar right now,'' one Milan trader said. Traders said attention continued to focus on the weakness of the Japanese yen. Anticipation was strong that monetary authorities would move to shore up the Japanese currency after the market shrugged off an increase in Japanese interest rates earlier this week. Traders said the West German mark was suffering from continuing uncertainty about the costs of German reunification. In Tokyo, where trading ends as Europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 0.24 yen to a closing 155.07 yen. Later in London, it was quoted at a lower rate of 155.00 yen. In London, the dollar fell against the British pound, which was quoted at $1.6040, compared with $1.6015 late Thursday. Other dollar rates at midmorning in Europe, compared with late Thursday's rates included: 1.7050 West German marks, down from 1.7054; 1.5105 Swiss francs, down from 1.5150; 5.7490 French francs, down from 5.7505; 1.9177 Dutch guilders, down from 1.9210; 1,256 Italian lire, up from 1,255.50, and 1.1765 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1757. Gold opened in London at a bid price of $393.40 a troy ounce, up from $393.05 bid late Thursday. At midmorning, the city's major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $393.60. In Zurich, the bid price was $393.75, up from $393 late Thursday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose 13 cents to close at a bid $393.65. Silver rose in London to a bid price of $5.09 a troy ounce, from Thursday's $5.08.
AP880709-0148 	X	A U.S. House subcommittee is investigating allegations of attempts to influence senior Internal Revenue Service officials in Washington and six other cities, a panel aide says. ``The allegations of misconduct concern high-level people at district and regional office levels,'' Peter Barash, staff director of the Commerce Consumer and Monetary Affairs subcommittee of the House Government Operations Committee, told the Lawrenceville-based Gwinnett Daily News on Friday. For seven weeks, subcommittee investigators and the General Accounting Office have been looking into charges of abuse by senior staffers in Los Angeles; Cincinnati; Newark, N.J.; San Francisco; Chicago; and Dallas, as well as Washington, Barash said. The investigators also are trying to determine if top officials at IRS headquarters in Washington failed to act against senior regional officials who allegedly misused their authority, Barash said. Barash said the subcommittee, chaired by Rep. Doug Barnard, D-Ga., received a number of allegations in the spring about misconduct within the agency. ``We checked out some things and found out that the allegations appear at this preliminary stage of the investigation to be true enough to begin a formal investigation,'' he said. ``It looks like some people, some top IRS senior staffers, were involved in misconduct, abusing of their power for private, personal gain or enrichment.'' Barnard's subcommittee will conduct hearings by early October on the results of its investigation, Barash said. The staff director described one case in Los Angeles involving a senior criminal investigator who went to work for Guess Jeans Inc. after leaving the federal agency. ``The allegation with regards to Guess Jeans is it had an IRS senior employee in Los Angeles under its control and influence and got this employee to either initiate criminal tax fraud investigations (against a competing jeans company) or to kill criminal tax fraud investigations at the behest of Guess Jeans,'' said Barash. The Gwinnett Daily News quoted a spokesman for the jeans maker as saying the company did nothing wrong and has agreed to cooperate with federal investigators.
AP900327-0002 	X	Here are the prime-time TV ratings as compiled by the A.C. Nielsen Co. for the week of March 19-25. Top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes. An ``X'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. A rating measures the percentage of the nation's 92.1 million TV homes. 1. (2) ``The Cosby Show,'' NBC, 23.2 rating, 21.4 million homes. 2. (5) ``America's Funniest Home Videos,'' ABC, 22.6, 20.8 million homes. 3. (1) ``Roseanne,'' ABC, 22.4, 20.6 million homes. 4. (7) ``60 Minutes,'' CBS, 21.1, 19.4 million homes. 5. (4) ``A Different World,'' NBC, 20.8, 18.4 million homes. 6. (3) ``Cheers,'' NBC, 20.5, 18.9 million homes. 7. (6) ``Golden Girls,'' NBC, 20.3, 18.7 million homes. 8. (9) ``Empty Nest,'' NBC, 19.4, 17.9 million homes. 9. (8) ``Wonder Years'' ABC, 19.3, 17.8 million homes. 10. (16) ``L.A. Law,'' NBC, 18.7, 17.4 million homes. 11. (19) ``Coach,'' ABC, 18.0, 16.6 million homes. 12. (10) ``Murder, She Wrote,'' CBS, 17.4, 16.0 million homes. 13. (48) ``Married...With Children,'' FOX, 17.0, 15.7 million homes. 14. (14) ``Unsolved Mysteries,'' NBC, 16.9, 15.6 million homes. 14. (31) ``Simpsons,'' FOX, 16.9, 15.6 million homes. 16. (17) ``In The Heat of the Night,'' NBC, 16.6, 15.3 million homes. 17. (20) ``Matlock,'' NBC, 16.5, 15.2 million homes. 18. (15) ``Grand,'' NBC, 16.3, 15.0 million homes. 19. (22) ``Full House,'' ABC, 16.1, 14.8 million homes. 20. (12) ``Who's the Boss?'', ABC, 15.7, 14.5 million homes.
AP900112-0242 	X	Air France said Friday it has agreed to acquire a controlling interest in the privately held airline Union de Transports Aeriens, in a move that values UTA at almost 7 billion French francs, or around $1.2 billion. Air France, the government-owned airline, said it will buy initially a block of 930,000 UTA shares representing 54.58 percent of UTA's capital from Chargeurs SA, a holding company with transportation and textile interests. Air France said it will pay 4,083 francs, or $714, for each UTA share. Trading in UTA shares was suspended on the Paris Stock Exchange Friday at 2,770 francs, or $484. The Societe des Bourses Francaises, which regulates securities trading, announced the halt amid rumors that Air France would be purchasing a major stake in UTA, France's biggest private airline. Air France said it is offering the same terms to UTA's minority shareholders. Chargeurs controls 82.9 percent of UTA's capital, and Air France will have first refusal rights if Chargeurs decides on any future dilution of its stake in UTA. UTA has a fleet of only 19 jets, six of which are owned by its charter subsidiary Aeromaritime. UTA operates on long-haul routes, mainly to the Pacific and Africa. Chargeurs Chairman Jerome Seydoux had said on several occasions that he would sell UTA if the French government did not authorize it to operate on European and transatlantic routes. In late 1988, the French government rejected UTA's request for new routes and said it was opposed to allowing UTA to fly to Newark, N.J., although two years ago UTA won the right to operate between Paris and San Francisco. Air France said the takeover will create an air transport group that will be able to compete on an even footing with big international competitors. Several of Air France's European rivals, notably British Airways PLC and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, have considered or made investments in foreign airlines as a way to position themselves to exploit the Common Market deregulation set to begin in 1992. The deal also gives Air France control of the French domestic airline Air Inter. UTA holds 35.8 percent of Air Inter stock and Air France has 37 percent. Transport Minister Michel Delebarre issued a statement praising the deal. But the takeover could spark a political debate, because Socialist President Francois Mitterrand had promised there would be neither nationalizations nor privatizations during his current 7-year term. As part of the deal, UTA will acquire the 49 percent minority stake in Aeromaritime that is held by Chargeurs, giving UTA full control of the charter operation. Financial analysts said Air France's purchase of 54.6 percent of UTA will give Chargeurs an immediate cash injection of almost 3.8 billion francs, or $665 million. Chargeurs' 1989 earnings were affected by a strike by UTA pilots that lasted several months.
AP901224-0174 	X	The disposition of an individual's estate need not be a guessing game. Yet many people are unaware that by establishing a sound estate plan they easily may shelter many holdings from probate. Still more don't know the principles behind assessing their estate. But by better understanding how the federal government governs estate taxes, people may avoid or reduce the future federal tax liabilities. This tax savings can preserve assets in the estate that otherwise might be used to pay death taxes. These assets then may be passed on to a spouse, children, or charity. There are several steps to take in evaluating your estate. First, determine the nature and the value of your estate's assets. Assts may include: your residence, other property such as a vacation home, household furnishings, savings bonds, stocks, checking and savings accounts, pension benefits, life insurance policies, automobiles. For federal tax purposes, there are several exceptions to determining the value of an asset: - For jointly owned assets held by spouses, only half the value of the asset is included in your estate if you are the first spouse to die. - For life insurance policies, the amount included in your estate is the face amount of the policy rather than its replacement cost or present cash value (if whole life) at the date of your death. - If you die before retirement, you receive none of your pension. However, half the value of the pension is payable to your spouse and half the vested plan benefits - what would have been available to you had you lived to retirement - are included in your gross estate. - Finally, Series EE bonds are included at their present value when they mature. - All other assets generally are included at fair market value. Second, determine your deductions when calculating federal estate tax. Include funeral expenses, costs of the last illness of the decendent, if applicable; unpaid debts and mortgages; and administrative expenses for the estate. You'll incur fewer administrative expenses for assets transferred outside of the probate. To avoid probate, you may set up a living trust, although it will create some trust administration costs. In addition, property held in joint tenancy with right of survivorship automatically passes to the surviving joint tenant outside the probate process. Other property of a contractual nature - such as life insurance policies or qualified pension plans - also will transfer to the beneficiary outside of probate. Step three, determine which property qualifies for the marital deduction or charitable deduction. Three factors make a difference: - If your will transfers property to your spouse, this property qualifies for the marital deduction. - If any property is held in joint tenancy with right of survivorship, the property passes to the surviving spouse and qualifies for the marital deduction. - If any life insurance or qualified pension plan names your spouse as policy beneficiary or plan benificiary, this, too, qualifies. The same kinds of arrangements will qualify property for the charitable estate tax deduction if property is left to the charity as a result of a will, a specific property designation such as a joint tenancy, or a contractual benificiary designation. Any property qualifying for the marital deduction or the charitable deduction is not subject to federal estate tax liability. Remaining property is referred to as the taxable estate. The fourth, and final, step is to determine estimated federal tax liability on the taxable estate. The unified estate and gift transfer tax rates apply to the taxable estate when calculating the amount of federal estate tax. Every individual, regardless of the size of his or her estate, is entitled to a unified credit of $192,800 that absorbs, dollar for dollar, the amount of that individual's federal estate tax liability up to that amount. This assumes that you did not make any lifetime gifts to an individual in any one year while alive that exceeded the amount of the gift tax annual exclusion amount of $10,000. Here, a rule of thumb applies. For your federal estate tax liability to be greater than $192,800, your taxable estate must be greater than $600,000. As long as a husband and wife each hold $600,000 in separately owned assets, the couple can own a total of $1.2 million in assets and the entire amount for both estates avoids federal estate tax liability. The process of rearranging property ownership for estate assets, so that each spouse's estate takes maximum advantage is known as ``estate equalization.'' Many people assume they won't have assets exceeding $600,000, but in these days of appreciated home values and sizable pension plans or life insurance policies, estates are often of surprising size. --- EDITOR'S NOTE - Paul Lochray is an academic associate in the estate planning division of the College for Financial Planning in Denver.
AP881212-0017 	X	Nearly 10 million Americans lost their jobs due to plant closings or layoffs from 1983 to 1988 despite the longest peacetime economic expansion in the nation's history, the government reports. Of 9.7 million displaced workers during the period, 4.7 million were so-called ``tenured'' workers who had held their jobs for three years or more, the Bureau of Labor Statistics says in the latest of its biennial reports on worker displacement. That was a slight decline from earlier BLS studies of overlapping five-year periods _ 1979-84 and 1981-86 _ which both had shown that 5.1 million tenured workers lost their jobs during the respective periods. But each of those periods also included the severe recession of 1981-82. As a result, government and private economists say the new figures show a persisting displacement problem. Larry Mishel, an economist for the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal Washington think tank, called the decline in job displacement after the recession years ``surprisingly small.'' The BLS began conducting the displacement surveys in 1984 at the request of the Labor Department's Employment and Training Administration. The latest report was released over the weekend. While the 1984 and 1986 surveys showed 50 percent of the displaced workers coming out of factories, only 40 percent of the tenured workers losing their jobs in 1983-88 had been employed in manufacturing. In conjunction, the distribution of the layoffs has shifted somewhat from blue-collar occupations such as machine operators, laborers and repairmen during the recession periods to white-collar management and sales occupations from 1983 to 1988. ``This was the lean-and-mean era, when companies went after middle-level managers and other white-collar workers,'' said Mishel. ``But a lot of it, especially in retail trade, is also somewhat related to these leveraged buyouts. It's probably the better-paid retail workers who lost their jobs.'' One thing that hasn't changed is the percentage of workers who were given some kind of advance notice before losing their jobs. In all three surveys, roughly six of every 10 displaced workers had been told in advance to ``expect a layoff.'' But only two of every 10 in the latest survey said they had received a written notice of their impending dismissals _ a trend bound to change in view of a new law requiring 60 days written notice of plant closings and large layoffs beginning in 1989. Of the 4.7 million tenured workers who lost their jobs from 1983 to the end of 1987, 71 percent or approximately 3.2 million of them had new jobs as of January last year and 14 percent of them said they were looking for work. That compares favorably with re-employment rates of 67 percent and 60 percent and unemployment rates of 18 percent and 25 percent in the respective 1986 and 1984 surveys. Of those re-employed full-time, 56 percent reported making as much or more money in their new jobs while 44 percent reported making less _ in current dollars unadjusted for inflation. About 28 percent reported that their earnings had increased by 20 percent or more in their new jobs. Taking inflation into account, analysts said, that represents the workers who definitely are better off in their new jobs than they were in their old ones. But a slightly larger group, 30 percent, reported suffering an income loss of at least 20 percent from their old jobs. ``That's much deeper than in the previous surveys,'' said Mishel. ``It confirms a continuing trend of high-paid workers having no alternative but to shift to the poorer-paying jobs being created by this recovery.''
AP880531-0294 	X	Koppers Co. Inc. and Beazer PLC said today their top executives conducted talks toward a merger agreement during the Memorial Day weekend. ``Such negotiations are expected to continue although there can be no assurance that such negotiations will result in a mutually acceptable agreement,'' the companies said. Beazer has offered to pay $60 per share, or a total of $1.7 billion, for Koppers. The companies' announcement said the talks would allow Beazer's affiliate, BNS Inc., to acquire the Pittsburgh-based Koppers. In the meantime, BNS extended the deadline for its tender offer until midnight Wednesday. Earlier, Beazer said a federal appeals court in California had lifted one of the roadblocks to BNS' hostile takeover bid of Koppers. Beazer said the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled Friday BNS may proceed with its attempt to acquire Koppers' stock once a trustee is appointed to control Koppers' Sunny-Miller Contracting Co. road materials subsidiary in Irwindale, Calif. Koppers spokesman Robert O'Gara said the decision imposes further delays on the attempted takeover bid. A hearing is scheduled on the issue Wednesday before Chief U.S. District Court Judge Manuel Real in Los Angeles, according to O'Gara.
AP881103-0061 	X	A classics professor who received Ohio State University's highest teaching award plunged 12 stories to his death from a parking garage in an apparent suicide, police said. John Vaughn, 41, taught a class in mythology that attracted hundreds of students and sometimes had a waiting list. A parking attendant saw Vaughn pacing the top floor of the garage Wednesday and approached to see if he needed help, said manager Charles Bruns. Without a word, Vaughn took off his coat, sat on a ledge and fell backward, the attendant reported. Vaughn received an alumni award for distinguished teaching in 1981, one of eight professors so honored that year, university spokesman Steve Sterrett said. Franklin County Coroner William Adrion tentatively ruled the death a suicide.
AP900130-0235 	X	Congressional approval of President Bush's new budget would allow the Internal Revenue Service to increase the number of tax returns it audits _ but not by much. IRS Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg Jr. told reporters the agency anticipates auditing 102 returns per 10,000 that will be filed in 1990 and 103 per 10,000 next year. That compares with an all-time low of 97 per 10,000 returns for the 1989 tax year. ``The fact remains that there has been a continuing decline in audit coverage for a number of years, but now we are seeing a reversal of the trend,'' Goldberg said after Bush's proposed budget for the 1991 fiscal year was made public Monday. Although IRS officials agree that more returns should be audited, they point to concerted efforts over the past few years to target larger returns, those involving tax shelters and others likely to yield more revenue. Even so, Goldberg said, the audit statistics do not tell the whole story. He noted, for example, about 40 million couples and individuals file returns that are based almost entirely on income from wages, interest and dividends. IRS computers now automatically check those returns against backup documents filed by employers, banks and brokers to ensure that all income is reported. While those computer matches are not audits, Goldberg said, they are thorough enough to make it difficult for taxpayers to under-report such income. The agency's proposed budget for 1991 is $6.14 billion, up 11.6 percent from this year's $5.5 billion. A big part of that increase represents another installment on the agency's plan to replace an outmoded computer system. Goldberg said the new system will cost up to $6 billion over the next decade. One aim of the new system is to allow taxpayers to get answers to questions about their tax accounts as easily as they get information about a bill from a credit card company. The Bush administration estimates the IRS will collect an additional $3 billion next year because of management initiatives and the increase in the agency's own spending. Goldberg said the IRS will spend an additional $56 million and assign about 1,000 new staff members to reducing accounts receivable from a record level of nearly $60 billion. Those are taxes that have been assessed but not paid. The agency expects to spend $330 million in the new year for taxpayer service, which includes answering telephoned tax questions. That figure is up from $317 million this year, principally because last year IRS employees gave the wrong answer to one of every three telephoned questions.
AP900522-0047 	X	The dollar fell against the Japanese yen Tuesday, while the key index on the Tokyo Stock Exchange gained moderately, the first advance in three trading days. The dollar closed at 152.40 yen, down 0.85 yen from Monday's close of 153.25 yen. After opening at 153.36 yen, the dollar ranged between 152.30 yen and 153.36 yen. The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues rose 173.25 points to close at 31,938.30 points. Tuesday's advance followed a 248.67-point decline on Monday and a 47.88 point-slip last Friday. In the bond market, the price of the benchmark No. 119 10-year Japanese government bonds inched down to 87.34 points as of 3 p.m. (2:00 a.m. EDT), down from Monday's close of 87.39. The yield stood at 7.095 percent, up from the previous day's 7.085 percent. Currency dealers said the dollar opened slightly higher following its overnight upswing in New York, where it finished at 153.73 yen, up from 153 yen Friday. ``The dollar weakened as it was affected by cross-trading'' between the yen and the West German mark, said Kozo Yoshida, a dealer with Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank. Yoshida said otherwise there was no major market-affecting news. The yen's rebound triggered an upswing in stocks, dealers said. ``Share prices as a whole dropped in early trading on index-related selling, but the yen's recovery against the dollar encouraged many investors,'' said Yu Yoshida, a stock analyst with Yamaichi Securities. In the bond market, the price of the benchmark No. 119 10-year Japanese government bond edged higher to 87.33 from Monday's close of 87.09. That lowered the yield to 7.10 percent from 7.15 percent.
AP900509-0062 	X	American Ballet Theater dancers looked wonderful on the second night of the company's season at the Metropolitan Opera. The program was two New York premieres, a dazzling ``Black Swan'' pas de deux and ``Lilac Garden'' starring Carla Fracci. The Italian ballerina returned to American Ballet Theater as a guest to perform in an excerpt from ``Lilac Garden'' at Monday's gala opening and the entire Antony Tudor ballet on Tuesday night. The entire ballet, to Chausson's ``Poeme,'' was as achingly romantic as it is meant to be. The young bride-to-be, danced by Miss Fracci with subtlety and gentle beauty, is stoical but suffering because in love with a younger man. He was danced with romantic yearning by Kevin McKenzie. Ross Stretton as the Man She Must Marry was stiff with his bride-to-be but softer when he met An Episode in His Past in the lilac garden. She, danced by Martine Van Hamel, seemed a strong survivor but she was hurting, too. The evening began with ``Birthday Offering,'' which Frederick Ashton choreographed for the 25th anniversary of the British Royal Ballet. It gives important solos to seven ballerinas, showing each one's strength. Ballet Theater added it to its repertory last October in Houston. On Tuesday, the star ballerina was Susan Jaffe, partnered by Stretton. The others were Cheryl Yeager, Amanda McKerrow, Julie Kent, Leslie Browne, Alessandra Ferri and Christine Dunham. All looked good. Fernando Bujones, back this season as a guest, having been greatly missed, and Cynthia Harvey danced the ``Black Swan'' pas de deux. Both were in the highest, exciting form. Toward the end of the duet, Miss Harvey danced only 16 of the famous 32 fouettes, whipped-leg turns. The audience murmured, fearing she had felt a muscle tear, but she finished the duet flawlessly. The evening ended with the half-hour ``Brief Fling'' which Twyla Tharp choreographed for the company. This eclectic, quite enjoyable ballet had its premiere in February in San Francisco. In it, Cheryl Yeager and Julio Bocca, in Navy, do formal ballet dancing to ``I'm a Little Teapot'' played on amplified piano. Shelley Washington, loose-limbed as Miss Tharp was as a dancer, looked like an urchin being tossed around by Jamie Bishton, Kevin O'Day and Keith Roberts in mini-kilts. Claudia Alfieri, Isabella Padovani, Gil Boggs and Robert Wallace wore red plaid. During the 10 sections of ``Brief Fling'' there also was a jig and music which sounded like minimalism meeting a cement mixer. The music was by Michel Colombier. Clever costumes were by Isaac Mizrahi. Dennis Cleveland played the violin solo in ``Lilac Garden.'' The orchestra sounded thin, as though too small for the requirements of the music.
AP901213-0188 	X	Beverly Hills must install a Christmas tree next to a 28-foot Hanukkah menorah or move the menorah next to an existing tree, a federal judge ruled Thursday in a lawsuit between two Jewish groups. U.S. District Judge Terry J. Hatter said a U.S. Supreme Court decision concerning religious symbols on public property clearly allows such displays but only if both the menorah and the Christmas tree are represented and are close together. ``What I am going to order is that the menorah be moved so that it is next to the tree that has been designated to symbolize a secular Christmas tree and that no religious ceremonies be held (there),'' Hatter said. Marshall Grossman, an attorney for Chabad, a movement of Hasidic Jews, said the group paid $25,000 to install the menorah - an array of nine candles - on a permanent foundation and could not easily move it. Hatter said a large Christmas tree could be brought to the site and could be lighted next to the menorah. ``Your honor, I can probably do that myself,'' said Grossman. ``It may be the first time I've purchased a Christmas tree but I think I can get rabbinical approval.'' The American Jewish Congress and four Jewish residents of Beverly Hills, backed by the American Civil Liberties Union, filed a civil rights lawsuit seeking the menorah's removal. They claimed that having the menorah on public property was a violation of First Amendment guarantees of separation of church and state. They also drew support Thursday from the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. Grossman protested when the judge ruled that no religious ceremonies could be held in front of the menorah, which stands across the street from City Hall. Hatter denied a request from Beverly Hills attorney Mitchell Abbott to stay his temporary restraining order from taking effect until further arguments could be made. ACLU lawyers Carol Sobel and Douglas Mirell pressed for quick action, saying any delay would allow the menorah to stand alone through the eight-night celebratin of Hanukkah, which began Tuesday night. Although the city has two official Christmas trees and lighted street decorations, the attorneys said they are not close enough to the menorah to provide equal representation. Hatter suggested that the presence of two symbols might help to spread holiday cheer. ``Our society is in need of any sustenance of a positive nature,'' the judge said. ``The court is abiding by the letter of what the Supreme Court said,'' ACLU attorney Mirell said outside court. He called the ruling ``a clear victory'' for the plaintiffs. Grossman disagreed. ``The net result of this misguided effort ... is that this year instead of there being two Christmas trees and one menorah in Beverly Hills, there will now be an additional Christmas tree,'' he said.
AP880929-0129 	X	The House approved a $1.8 billion 1989 appropriations bill for Congress' own expenses Thursday, an election-year measure devoid of a pay raise that many lawmakers had talked about giving themselves. The measure was approved on a 253-133 vote and sent to the Senate for final congressional approval. The appropriations bill was one of five remaining that legislators are racing to complete by Saturday's start of federal fiscal year 1989. If all 13 are enacted by Saturday, it would be the first time since 1948 that all of the spending measures that finance government agencies were in place in time for the new year. Members of Congress have received base annual salaries of $89,500 since February 1987. But lawmakers have been coming under increasing public criticism for the large sums of money most of them receive for giving speeches to industry, labor and other groups. The amount of the payments _ called honoraria _ legislators can keep each year can total up to 30 percent of each representative's salary, and up to 40 percent of each senator's pay. Lawmakers have discussed lowering or eliminating the amount of honoraria permitted in exchange for increasing the base pay. After House-Senate negotiators working on the bill discussed the proposals briefly on Wednesday, they agreed not to address the issue in the spending measure. President Reagan is scheduled to propose salary adjustments for Congress and top federal officials in January. His proposal will be based on the recommendations that a special federal salary commission are scheduled to make in December. The money in the bill represents a 3 percent, or $59 million, increase over 1988 legislative spending. Of the total package, $506 million is for the House and $341 million for the Senate. The rest is for joint items such as the Capitol Police and for congressional agencies such as the Library of Congress.
AP880613-0224 	X	Today is Wednesday, June 22, the 174th day of 1988. There are 192 days left in the year. Today's Highlight in History: Fifty years ago, on June 22, 1938, heavyweight boxing champion Joe Louis knocked out German boxer Max Schmeling just two minutes, four seconds into the first round of their rematch at New York's Yankee Stadium, two years after Schmeling knocked out Louis. (In addition to gaining a personal triumph, Louis dealt a body blow to Adolf Hitler's doctrine of ``Aryan supremacy.'' In 1981, when Louis died, Schmeling hailed his one-time adversary as a ``boxing genius'' and ``the greatest opponent I ever faced in the ring.'') On this date: In 1611, English explorer Henry Hudson, his son and several other people were set adrift in present-day Hudson Bay by mutineers. In 1815, Napoleon Bonaparte abdicated a second time. In 1868, Arkansas was re-admitted to the Union. In 1870, Congress created the Department of Justice. In 1911, Britain's King George V was crowned at Westminster Abbey. In 1937, Joe Louis began his reign as world heavyweight boxing champion by knocking out Jim Braddock in Chicago. In 1940, Adolf Hitler gained a stunning victory as France was forced to sign an armistice eight days after German forces overran Paris. In 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet Union during World War II. In 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the GI Bill of Rights. In 1969, singer-actress Judy Garland died in London at the age of 47. In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon signed a measure lowering the voting age to 18. In 1977, John N. Mitchell became the first former U.S. Attorney General to go to prison as he began serving a sentence for his role in the Watergate cover-up. (He was released 19 months later.) In 1981, Mark David Chapman pleaded guilty to killing rock star John Lennon outside Lennon's New York City apartment building the previous December. Ten years ago: A group of neo-Nazis called off plans to march in the predominantly Jewish community of Skokie, Ill., after winning a year-long battle for legal permission to demonstrate, but also said they would go ahead with plans for a rally in Chicago. Five years ago: The crew of the space shuttle Challenger released a West German satellite into space, then retrieved it with the shuttle's robot arm a total of five times _ demonstrating the shuttle's ability to retrieve and put back into orbit satellites in need of repair. One year ago: Dancer Fred Astaire, whose elegance and fancy footwork graced more than 30 movies, died at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles at age 88. Today's Birthdays: Movie director Billy Wilder (``Some Like It Hot'') is 82. Author Anne Morrow Lindbergh is 82. Broadway producer Joseph Papp is 67. Fashion designer Bill Blass is 66. Actor Ralph Waite is 60. Former San Francisco Mayor Dianne Feinstein is 55. Singer-actor Kris Kristofferson is 51. CBS news correspondent Ed Bradley is 47. Singer-musician Todd Rundgren is 40. Actress Meryl Streep is 39. Actress Lindsay Wagner is 39. Thought for Today: ``The best compliment to a child or a friend is the feeling you give him that he has been set free to make his own inquiries, to come to conclusions that are right for him, whether or not they coincide with your own.'' _ Alistair Cooke, British-born American journalist and broadcaster.
AP880901-0261 	X	Bondholders who had pursued the Washington Public Power Supply System through the courts for five years have let WPPSS off the hook just before trial, claiming ``you can't get blood out of a turnip.'' Plaintiff attorneys said the deal with the supply system announced Wednesday will gain the cooperation of WPPSS employees, who will be leading witnesses when the securities fraud trial starts Sept. 7 in Tucson, Ariz. WPPSS agreed this week to settle litigation against it over the system's $2.25 billion bond default in 1983. The bonds were sold to finance construction of two nuclear power plants, which were never completed. The trial was moved to Tucson after judges in Seattle excused themselves because of possible perceived conflicts of interest and because some feared it would be impossible to get an impartial jury to hear the case. Thousands of people in Washington lost money because of the default. Bondholders agreed to drop claims against WPPSS in return for access to accounts for the terminated power plants, Nos. 4 and 5, containing millions of dollars. Remaining defendants include 20 public utilities in Washington and one in Oregon that participated in building the plants, three engineering firms and a firm that had provided WPPSS with financial advice. The abrupt pullout of WPPSS caught other defendants by surprise, and one acknowledged consideration was being given to requesting a trial delay. ``We're surprised they (WPPSS) didn't stay and defend their actions ...,'' said Chuck Shigley, administrator for the Snohomish County Public Utility District. WPPSS paid no money in the tentative settlement, but agreed that it has an obligation to pay the face value and interest on the bonds _ which total about $3 billion. ``Since you can't get blood out of a turnip, why not get all the other benefits you can,'' said Mel Weiss, representing class action plaintiffs in the giant lawsuit. However, the agreement noted that because of limited assets pledged to secure the bonds, there was ``no expectation'' the money would ever be paid. The WPPSS Executive Board was expected to approve the agreement when it meets Friday in Richland, Wash., in a special meeting, said Carl Halvorson, board chairman. ``It's a very favorable settlement for the supply system,'' he said. The tentative settlement, which also requires the approval of presiding U.S. District Judge William D. Browning, protects WPPSS' other assets against any further judgments in the case. In the legal action, bondholders sued the supply system, 88 utilities, bond underwriters, various directors and managers, engineering firms and advisors after WPPSS defaulted on $2.25 billion worth of bonds. Many defendants have settled over the past year, including bond underwriters and more than 60 utilities. They have agreed to pay a total of $331 million and may face further liabilities. The terminated plants are located at the Hanford nuclear reservation and Satsop, west of Olympia. Meanwhile, Browning ruled Wednesday in Tucson that bondholders are permitted to try to prove they should be fully refunded for the bonds they bought. Common law and state law permit rescission, or refund, damages, Browning said in his nine-page order. Claims under the federal Securities Act allow only for out-of-pocket losses, Browning said. That means the difference between what the bondholder paid and what the value of the bonds were. In both instances, the bondholders will be allowed to try to prove that because of misrepresentations, they bought bonds that otherwise would not have been put on the market and therefore should get full refunds plus interest.
AP900906-0079 	X	A federal appeals court today upheld a judge's dismissal of charges against an Iran-Contra scandal defendant because the government refused to allow the defense to use classified materials. Joseph Fernandez, the CIA station chief in Costa Rica from 1984-86, was entitled to the material to defend himself against charges that he lied to investigators about a scheme to send military aid to Contra rebels in Nicaragua, said a three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. Fernandez planned to use the classified evidence to argue that he did not lie about his knowledge of former National Security Council official Oliver North's involvement in the scheme and the type of supplies being sent to the Contras. ``Whether a jury would believe Fernandez's defense is speculation. But to preclude the jury from considering evidence relevant to this defense would be to deprive him of fundamental constitutional protections,'' said the opinion by Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson III. He was joined by Judges William W. Wilkins Jr. and Robert F. Chapman. The 40-page opinion deletes numerous mentions of sensitive national security information. U.S. District Judge Claude M. Hilton of Alexandria dismissed the case last November after the government refused to submit the classified material sought by Fernandez. The former CIA station chief had been indicted on two counts of lying to investigators and two counts of obstructing justice. He was accused of telling investigators that a Costa Rican airstrip was for training that country's military in case of an invasion by Nicaragua when in fact the airstrip was used to illegally resupply the Contras. He also was accused of falsely saying he did not know of North's involvement and did not know that supplies he helped deliver to the Contras in 1986 contained military aid. Fernandez asked to disclose nearly 5,000 classified documents at his trial.
AP880808-0212 	X	A federal has board ordered a Postal Service contract with Texas computer billionaire H. Ross Perot voided because the way in which the contract was awarded violated proper procedures. The contract had been suspended on July 8 after a preliminary ruling which the Postal Service is challenging in the U.S. Court of Appeals. The board concluded Friday that the Postal Service violated federal rules by failing to provide any advance notice of the contract and awarding the contract to Perot without seeking competitive bids.
AP880526-0230 	X	Max Robinson, the country's first black network television anchor, knows that people think his recent life-threatening illness might be AIDS, but he refuses to discuss it. ``I take the position that my health is a private matter,'' he told The Washington Post in an interview at his home in Chicago. The Post, in a three-page profile of Robinson published Thursday, noted that ``it is widely rumored that Robinson has AIDS, and he's aware of that.'' ``The curiosity has at times annoyed me,'' Robinson said. ``I'm just not going to get into the subject of what I have.'' Robinson, whose TV career took off when he became an anchorman in Washington in 1969, moved to the ABC network in 1978 when he, Frank Reynolds and Peter Jennings were the three anchors on ``World News Tonight.'' His relations with ABC wer sometimes stormy; he once accused the network of racism and in 1983 embarrassed ABC executives by missing Reynolds' funeral service at which he was expected to escort President and Mrs. Reagan. He left the network in 1984 and worked briefly at WMAQ-TV in Chicago. He has not worked much since, and said he is selling his Afro-American art collection which has been valued at a half-million dollars. Robinson was hospitalized on Dec. 4 last year in critical condition and complaining about weight loss. When he was released nearly two months later, officials refused to discuss his illness. ``While in intensive care, he lay in an isolated room, and when he was moved to another ward, a warning was posted outside his room to medical personnel to gown and glove before performing certain tasks in caring for him,'' the newspaper said. ``I feel pretty good,'' Robinson said. Asked if he was terminally ill, the 49-year-old Robinson replied, ``We all are.''
AP901214-0247 	X	Oil prices rallied Friday as traders speculated President Bush might scrap diplomatic meetings with Iraq, then crude fell back sharply when Bush's news conference rhetoric was not so harsh. Light sweet crude oil settled at $26.55 per barrel, up 13 cents, at the New York Mercantile Exchange on contracts for delivery in January. Crude for delivery in most later months closed lower. In early trading, crude had jumped up by $1.68 per barrel amid continued quarreling between the United States and Iraq over a date for Secretary of State James A. Baker III to visit Baghdad. Two senators said in Washington that Bush might be ready to abandon the idea of the talks, adding to oil's rally. After Bush said in the afternoon that he was discouraged but still hoped the talks could be held, crude plunged more than $1 per barrel in about a half hour. ``It was probably a little over-bought on the whole situation,'' said Ann-Louise Hittle, a senior oil analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. ``Once he came out and didn't do anything, it was easy to sell off, probably a little bit of buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact.'' Oil traders often run up prices by buying crude futures contracts when rumors hit the market, because they don't want to run the risk of getting left out of a rally. They are more likely to sell off their oil contracts on the basis of facts that indicate adequate supplies or sluggish demand. During the week, crude hit its lowest prices since Aug. 3, the day after Iraq invaded Kuwait. But after the close of $25.35 per barrel on Wednesday, it began moving higher. Oil had been steadily dropping since Nov. 30, when Bush first proposed the talks with Iraq and traders began believing a peaceful solution to the crisis could be at hand. Once the diplomats showed they could not even agree on dates to meet, the war fears began resurfacing. ``The last few days, it seemed like the peace talk has diminished,'' said Ed Kevelson, a trader with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. For the week, crude finished 3 cents higher on January delivery contracts. Refined petroleum products moved in tandem with crude on Friday, rising in early trading then dropping to show little change at the close. Home heating oil was up .67 cent at 75.24 cents a gallon for January delivery. Unleaded gasoline was up .61 cent at 66.18 cents a gallon for January delivery. Heating oil has shown the most weakness of late, with supplies adequate and demand sluggish amid unseasonably warm fall weather. ``It won't get cold,'' said Thomas P. Blakeslee, an energy analyst with Pegasus Econometric Group Inc., in Hoboken, N.J. ``It's a little chilly out there today, but there's no forecast for any types of freezing temperatures.'' For the week, heating oil fell 3.93 cents for next-month delivery, while gasoline fell .29 cent. Natural gas for January delivery closed Friday at $2.262 per 1,000 cubic feet, up 4.2 cents for the day but down 8.8 cents for the week.
AP900911-0168 	X	Two suspected Colombian drug traffickers were extradited to the United States on Tuesday, the first such extraditions since President Cesar Gaviria took office last month. Jose Hilario Ortiz and Raul Hernan Buchelli, who both face drug trafficking charges in the United States, were placed on board a U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration plane bound for Miami, national police chief Gen. Miguel Gomez said in remarks broadcast by the RCN radio network. Ortiz faces drug trafficking charges in Connecticut and Buchelli is wanted in Florida, said a police spokesman, requesting anonymity. No further details were immediately available. Buchelli is wanted on charges of conspiracy to smuggle and distribute heroin and money laundering, while Ortiz pleaded guilty to a cocaine trafficking conspiracy charge and fled the country before sentencing, according to U.S. court records. Buchelli's brother, Guido Lucio, also faces drug trafficking charges in the United States. But he was released last week after the government rejected a U.S. request for his extradition, citing insufficient evidence. Colombia has extradited 24 suspected drug traffickers to the United States since August 1989, when the government launched a major anti-drug crackdown after the murder of a presidential candidate. Twelve of those extradited have either been convicted at trial or pleaded guilty; one was acquitted. An additional nine are awaiting trial. The crackdown prompted the Medellin cocaine cartel to declare ``total war'' on the government a year ago. Tuesday's extraditions were the first of suspected drug traffickers to the United States since Gaviria was inaugurated Aug. 7. He has pledged to continue the war against the cocaine cartels waged by his predecessor, Virgilio Barco. Last Wednesday, Gaviria modified the country's extradition policy. In a nationally televised speech, Gaviria said drug traffickers who turn themselves in and confess their crimes would be tried in Colombia and not face extradition to the United States. Under the decree announced by Gaviria, Colombian judges would be also empowered to impose shorter sentences for suspects who confess and cooperate with local investigations. The country's drug barons have so far offered no reply to Gaviria's offer. Gaviria's offer appeared to be, at least in part, a response to repeated offers from the drug traffickers to surrender to Colombian judges in return for a promise to end the extraditions that had been resumed last year by Barco. The drug traffickers have feared extradition to the United States because they would have little influence over the judicial process there. Cocaine cartel members have traditionally been able to either bribe or threaten their way out of Colombian jails. Judges who refuse to be intimidated have often been slain. In his speech last week, Gaviria announced that three Colombians would soon be extradited to the United States, but he said three other U.S. extradition requests had been turned down. The third suspect set to be extradited, Joaquin Oswaldo Gallo Chamorro, was still being held in Colombia on Tuesday. Authorities did not say why he was not sent to the United States with Ortiz and Buchelli. With the latest extraditions, the U.S. Justice Department is still seeking to extradite 14 suspected drug traffickers held in Colombia. Colombia's Cali and Medellin drug cartels supply most of the cocaine consumed in the United States and Europe. Authorities blame the Medellin for killing about 550 Colombians the past year, including three presidential candidates.
AP900504-0064 	X	Three men planting explosives near a British military barracks today fired at a guard before fleeing their bungled bombing attempt, officials said. Investigators later found 65 pounds of the high-powered explosive Semtex in three satchels outside a housing block at the British army's Langenhagen Barracks in Hanover, British military officials said. It was not known who was responsible. A Ministry of Defense spokesman in London said: ``We cannot say the men were IRA at this moment in time. All we can say is that they were terrorists.'' The Irish Republican Army has been blamed for numerous attacks against British military installations in West Germany over the past few years. The IRA has waged a campaign to drive the British from Northern Ireland and unite the Protestant-dominated province with the overwhelming Roman Catholic Irish Republic. According to police, a civilian guard making the rounds with a security dog noticed three suspicious people on the barracks grounds about 2 a.m. Three shots were fired by the people, said a British military spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He said the guard was not injured. Col. Henry Day, Chief of Public Information for the British Forces in Germany, said the attackers had cut a hole in the barracks' perimeter fence. He told British Broadcasting Corp. radio that 70 soldiers were moved from the building. ``It was Semtex, with a wire timing device,'' Day said. He said one satchel contained 10 blocks of explosives, and the second nine blocks. He said he had no details on the third.
AP880321-0016 	X	After 10 months, one of the many unanswered questions in the criminal investigation of Attorney General Edwin Meese III is whether he benefited financially from his efforts on behalf of an Iraqi oil pipeline project or scandal-plagued Wedtech Corp., sources familiar with the probe say. Last May 11, independent counsel James McKay launched his inquiry of Meese's assistance to Wedtech and the probe has spread to the attorney general's involvement with the pipeline. In both instances, McKay's investigators have been examining stock trades made on Meese's behalf by his investment manager, W. Franklyn Chinn. Chinn and Meese were brought together by Meese's longtime friend E. Robert Wallach, a central figure in both the Wedtech scandal and the pipeline project. It was disclosed earlier this month that: _In connection with the $1 billion proposed pipeline, Swiss oilman Bruce Rappaport paid $150,000 to his attorney Wallach, who directed the funds to an account owned by Chinn. Rappaport was a partner in the project with San Francisco-based Bechtel Group Inc., which was going to build the pipeline. Rappaport was brought into the deal in 1985 primarily because of his close ties to then-Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres. _The money from the Meese Partners account, Wallach's $150,000 placed in the Chinn account and several hundred thousand dollars from Chinn's biggest customer, Marymount College of Palos Verdes, Calif., were used as capital by Chinn to buy hard-to-get, brand-new stock issues, which Chinn sold later the same day. It would have been difficult for Chinn to obtain such stock with Meese's money alone. ``Without using the holdings of the other accounts he controlled, ... Mr. Chinn may not have been able to conduct the number of trades he did ... on behalf of Meese Partners,'' a congressional subcommittee said in a report this month. _Once the stock was sold and the profit and loss determined, Chinn assigned profits and losses to his various customers. Overall, Meese invested $50,000 and came away 18 months later with $95,000, almost all of it gained through a total of 23 one-day stock trades. Eighteen of the trades were profitable. In seven of the trades, the attorney general didn't have enough money in his account to generate the profits and losses that were assigned him. Chinn's biggest customer, Marymount College, didn't fare nearly as well as Meese. Was the stock trading actually a well-disguised payoff to Meese? That question is one that McKay's office has been unable to resolve, say the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity. Central to the criminal investigation is whether there was a plan to steer the proceeds of Chinn's stock transactions to Meese and whether the attorney general knew about it. The attorney general says he knew nothing about the transactions because he had set up a limited blind partnership with Chinn's company under which details were to be kept secret from Meese as a way to protect the attorney general from violating rules against conflict of interest. The investigators face a wall of silence from the others involved in setting up the financial arrangements, Chinn and Wallach, who are both under indictment for racketeering in the Wedtech scandal. Wallach denied to McKay's investigators that he gave anything of value to Meese, but Wallach refused to tell McKay anything about his dealings with Wedtech, his knowledge of the Meese-Chinn partnership and his dealings with Chinn. McKay said that after the Wedtech trial expected later this year of Wallach, Chinn and business associate R. Kent London, the independent counsel may seek their testimony again. The attorney general's good fortune in stock trading began months after he smoothed the way for Wallach to discuss the pipeline with then-National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane, who met with Wallach and Rappaport in June 1985. Later in the year, Meese and Wallach met with Peres about the pipeline, which was never built. Also during the period the stock trading was taking place, Chinn sat on the board of directors of Wedtech, the Bronx, N.Y., defense contractor that allegedly paid out millions of dollars to lawyers and lobbyists in an attempt to influence various public officials, including Meese, in the awarding of federal contracts. One of those lawyers was Wallach, who was paid $1.3 million from 1981 through 1986 by Wedtech. The stock trades that made profits for the attorney general took place some four years after Meese, then White House counselor, arranged for his deputy, James Jenkins, to intervene on behalf of Wedtech in connection with a $32 million no-bid contract to build small engines for the Army. Despite the misgivings of Army officials over what they regarded as a high price, Wedtech was awarded the contract following a White House meeting called by Jenkins. Meese ended the financial arrangement with Chinn last year after the investment adviser came under criminal investigation in the Wedtech scandal and after public disclosure that Chinn had sat on Wedtech's board of directors.
AP880726-0009 	X	Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci says he hopes to curb Pentagon purchasing abuses by ordering new limits on the number of ``final offers'' that defense contractors can make on a single deal. Carlucci said at a news conference Monday that he was surprised to learn how frequently companies were allowed to revise supposedly final bids, although he described it as ``the exception'' rather than the rule. In the past, contractors have been allowed to amend their final offers in consultation with the Pentagon to change prices or technical specifications to meet military needs. The Pentagon has been rocked in recent weeks by allegations that private consultants working for defense contractors bribed top military purchasing officials for secret contract information. Many of the alleged abuses disclosed in the Justice Department investigation involve contractors who, through the consultants, learned the price or other specifics of bids by competing companies, and then submitted a new ``best and final offer'' tailored to win contracts, some of them worth billions of dollars. ``It is the `best and final offer' that seems to us to create the most intensive point in the competitive cycle. And that means that information is at a premium,'' Carlucci said. ``We intend to continue with our competitive process. But when you repeat it once, twice, or three times, then it can readily become subject to abuse,'' Carlucci added. Carlucci, who was scheduled to testify before the House Armed Services Committee today, also said his aides had drawn up a ``protocol'' for the military to follow as more information is disclosed from the Justice Department investigation. Carlucci said the department has: _Required that 17 companies implicated in the investigation certify they did not engage in ``illegal or improper activity'' to obtain a defense contract; _Required those 17 to agree, in any new contract greater than $100,000, to include a clause allowing the government to recover profits or 10 percent of the contract value if the deal is tainted; _Started procedures to lift the security clearances of six people, including one suspended without pay from the Navy Department and five others transferred to other duties pending results of the investigation; _Sent letters to the top 200 defense contractors urging them to implement strong internal ethics programs, ``stringent management controls, and asking them to report back to us on their self-governance programs;'' _Reviewed federal acquisition regulations to tighten controls on consultants employed by defense contractors; _Formed an audit task force to review the cost imposed on the military budget by consultants employed by private defense contractors. Carlucci said the certification requirement was being applied only to the 17 implicated companies to avoid penalizing contractors who were not under suspicion. ``This is a rifle action. It is not a shotgun action,'' he said. ``We are directing this at certain contractors. We do not intend to apply it indiscriminately, because it does impose a burden on people. ``And where there are burdens, there are costs, and those costs may come back to the Pentagon and the U.S. taxpayer,'' he said. ``It is only where we have reason to believe that people are under suspicion that we are doing this.'' Carlucci declined to identify people whose security clearances were being lifted, saying only that ``we are taking steps to revoke the security clearances of individuals who have been involved in illegal or improper actions.'' In a related development, the White House announced that President Reagan intends to nominate Milton L. Lohr to the new position of deputy undersecretary of defense for acquisition. Since 1983, Lohr has been president of the Defense Research Corp. in La Jolla, Calif. Before that, he was executive vice president of Flight Systems Inc., from 1969-83. Lohr, a 63-year-old native of Revere, Mass., graduated from the University of Southern California in 1949 and the University of California at Los Angeles in 1964.
AP881229-0062 	X	Social Security officials say a quadriplegic who won a seat in the Legislature has been warned he could lose his medical benefits if he takes his newly won seat and begins drawing expense reimbursements. Bill Boharski, a Kalispell Republican, defeated Democrat Gordon Hall in November, to win his first term in the Montana House. But after drawing expense reimbursements for attending legislative caucuses in November, Boharski said he was notified the reimbursements were ``unearned income'' that would make him ineligible for continued medical benefits under Medicare and Medicaid. And Boharski, who is paralyzed from injuries he suffered in an automobile accident five years ago, says he can't afford to lose the money. He estimates his medical expenses at $15,000 a year. ``That put me in a position where I had to seriously consider whether or not I had to resign my position,'' the 27-year-old legislator-elect said. ``That amount of medical bills isn't something you can just pay.'' Boharski said the situation is not desperate because state and federal officials are trying to help. Legislative leaders say they're considering a change in state compensation law to redefine the reimbursements, and Boharski said Social Security has advised him the case is under review. Boharski also said he will ask Congress for help if need be. Montana legislators earn $52.13 for each working day in the session plus $50 a day during the session as reimbursement for living expenses in Helena. The 1989 session begins Monday. It's the expense reimbursement that concerns Social Security Administration officials. Mark Fredenberg, operations supervisor for the agency's Kalispell office, said that under federal law, the expense allowances are considered unearned income. Social Security disability benefits are reduced by the amount of unearned income over $20 that a person receives, he said. And a person who loses eligibility for those payments because of unearned income also loses eligibility for medical coverage, he said. Most people receiving disability payments don't work or don't travel to work, Fredenberg noted, saying a situation such as Boharski's arises ``very, very seldom.'' Boharski said he checked into the federal regulations before he filed for office last spring. He said he was told then he would qualify for continued medical benefits if elected, under a program that allows people to continue receiving medical coverage even if they are working. Boharski said Social Security officials have since told him he should be able to continue receiving his medical benefits. But, he said, he hasn't yet received written verification. Fredenberg said he could not comment directly on Boharski's case because of federal privacy laws. Boharski said if legislation at the state level doesn't resolve the problem, he will try to have changes made at the federal level so he can retain his legislative seat. ``I'm counting on staying,'' he said. ``Anyone who knows me knows I don't quit that easy.''
AP881230-0201 	X	In a major blow to Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita, the man appointed to investigate a widening scandal resigned today after saying he had accepted political donations from the company at the center of the controversy. Takeshita today named a political outsider, former Supreme Court Judge Masami Takatsuji, 78, to replace Justice Minister Takashi Hasegawa. Hasegawa announced he was stepping down just three days after Takeshita appointed him to a new Cabinet supposedly untainted by a stock-dealing scandal that had already forced the resignation of 17 politicians and business leaders. Opposition parties and analysts say Takeshita should follow the lead of those leaders and resign. Hasegawa's resignation, which occurred the day after Takeshita publicly reaffirmed his support for him, was the second Cabinet casualty. Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa stepped down on Dec. 9. Takeshita made no comment on the resignation of Hasegawa, 76. Takatsuji, a constitutional expert and former bureaucrat, served as a Supreme Court justice from 1973 to 1980. He is an unusual choice as a Cabinet member because he is not a career politician, the background of nearly all Cabinet ministers. Takeshita apparently decided it was necessary to go outside politics to find someone without links to the Recruit Co., the information conglomerate at the heart of the scandal over charges it sold unlisted stocks in a subsidiary to scores of politicians and business leaders at bargain prices. Asked at a news conference today if he had any connection to the Recruit affair, the new justice minister said: ``None at all.'' ``I don't really have anything to say about Recruit,'' Takatsuji said. ``My attitude toward it is no different from that of the people in general.'' His predecessor had been given a mandate to reform political ethics and head the legal probe of the Recruit scandal. But one day after Hasegawa's appointment, it was disclosed that Recruit had given money for 12 years to a group that financed his campaign and political activities. ``There is nothing wrong with politicians accepting donations made from the good will of their supporters,'' Hasegawa told reporters earlier today. ``However, as minister in charge of clearing up the Recruit problem in the Takeshita administration, which is trying to heighten trust in government, it is regrettable that I received donations from Recruit,'' he said. ``I apologize deeply and resign from my post as justice minister.'' The scandal has engulfed the Liberal Democrats, as several senior party lawmakers or their aides purchased shares in the subsidiary before the shares were offered publicly and later sold them at large tax-free profits. The transactions were legal but have generated a storm of controversy over business and political ethics. Prosecutors also are invesigating possible bribery. Leaders of the opposition Clean Government Party and the Democratic Socialist Party said Hasegawa's resignation was only natural, while the Communist Party called for the entire Cabinet to resign and new parliamentary elections. ``Takeshita should step down because he is connected to the Recruit affair himself and as long as he is appointing Cabinet ministers, government won't be clean,'' said Masayuki Fukuoka, a professor of political science at Komazawa University in Tokyo. ``There is no way for the Takeshita administration to regain its public support as more people will probably be arrested as the Recruit investigation advances next year,'' he said. It is widely perceived that the premier should consider resigning when public support dips below 20 percent, Fukuoka said. A newspaper poll this month found Takeshita's public support was 18 percent, down from 30 percent when he took office 13 months ago. An aide to Takeshita and one of his relatives also profited in the stock transactions, but the prime minister has denied any personal involvement. ``Takeshita cannot escape the responsibility of political reform that he has pledged, and he should resign,'' said Jiro Kamijima, professor of government at Tokyo's Rissho University. ``The entire parliament has been hijacked (by Recruit).'' Hasegawa confirmed Thursday that his political support organization received $46,000 from Recruit over the last 12 years, but Hasegawa said he had no knowledge of the donations. Other new Cabinet members have received donations from Recruit, including the agriculture and economic planning agency chiefs and Chief Cabinet Secretary Keizo Obuchi, who has acknowledged his political support group received monthly donations of $160 from Recruit.
AP880422-0200 	X	With lessons learned from the Grenada evacuation, Charleston County officials are preparing for the possibility of a hasty civilian evacuation from Central America. ``I guess that the national network interviews of Americans in Panama made me think in terms of that. Basically, it's just headlines until you start seeing people and their concerns about things like that,'' William J. Knowles, director of Charleston County's Department of Social Services, said Friday. During the past three weeks, social services employees have been assembling ``survival boxes'' containing items ranging from registration forms to diapers. They also have a stockpile of quarters for any new arrival who might need to make a telephone call. The repatriation would be similar to the last-minute handling of the more than 500 evacuees flown to the Charleston Air Force Base after the 1983 invasion of Grenada, said Knowles. Though the Charleston Air Force Base has not been designated a civilian evacuation landing zone, Knowles said it is the most logical and convenient for the large aircraft known to supply American bases in Central America. ``We were very lucky with Grenada because this line of government dealt with that line of government right up to the State Department. But with something like an evacuation, you never know what may happen,'' he said. ``It's just been a prudent ground effort to muster the resources of an agency at a minute's notice,'' he said. ``We don't want to be in a position of having to run around looking for this and that.''
AP900714-0061 	X	Two of the 14 Cubans who sought refuge in Czechoslovakia's embassy in Havana earlier this week have left the mission, the Foreign Ministry said today. According to a report carried by the state CTK news agency, one refugee left without notifying the embassy and the other asked to be released. The two apparently left without explanation. ``They left Friday afternoon, sometime between 4 and 4:30 p.m. local time,'' said Marcel Cintalan, a Foreign Ministry official. ``We don`t know why. They did not give any reasons.'' A senior official said Friday that Czechoslovakia would not turn the Cuban refugees in the Havana embassy over to authorities and that Prague was prepared for long and complicated talks over their fate. Three other asylum-seekers have sought refuge in Spain's Havana embassy. The Czechoslovak deputy foreign minister, Lubos Dobrovsky, met with Cuban Ambassador Mario Rodriguez Martinez Friday and asked Cuba to grant the refugees free passage. Dobrovsky also met with senior Soviet, West German and Italian diplomats to seek their help in resolving the situation. Tension has been growing between the two former Communist allies since a democratic revolution swept Czechoslovakia's Communist rulers from power last winter. Earlier this week, Prague said it suspected the influx of Cuban refugees might be a deliberate provocation by Havana to underline the growing strain between the nations.
AP900820-0059 	X	Iraq said today it had moved Western detainees to vital military targets, making good on its threat to use them as human shields against a potential American attack. The message came after Iraq warned its own people not to hide foreigners or they would face the ``severest punishment.'' Iraq had threatened earlier to use the trapped foreigners as shields, and today's statement by the official Iraqi News Agency said some had already been scattered at the target sites. The agency, monitored in Nicosia, quoted a spokesman for the Iraqi National Council as saying: ``Iraq's foreign guests have been in fact moved to all vital and military installations. They have been provided with all modern facilities and they are all in good physical condition.'' The three-line dispatch provided no further details, such as how many foreigners had been moved or to what installations. Earlier, President Bush demanded that Iraq release all foreigners detained in Iraq and Kuwait, and for the first time he referred to them as hostages. ``There can be little doubt that whatever these innocent citizens are called, they are in fact hostages,'' he said in a speech to war veterans in Baltimore. Also today, two senior U.N. officials headed for Baghdad to urge Iraq to free foreigners held captive in Kuwait and Iraq. U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar said Iraqi President Saddam Hussein requested the envoys be sent. In his speech, Bush repeated U.S. demands that Iraq withdraw from Kuwait, which it invaded Aug. 2. He also likened Saddam Hussein to Adolf Hitler. An Iraqi official also referred to World War II today, reminding the United States that it had once interned members of its own ethnic Japanese population. ``In response to the official American and Western declarations regarding Iraq's hosting of foreigners ... We would like to recall that America, during World War II, held about 100,000 of its own citizens of Japanese origin in detention camps to avert a potential Japanese attack on its western coast,'' said the statement carried by the state-run Iraqi News Agency. It was attributed to the Speaker of the Iraqi National Council, or parliament, Sadi Mehdi Saleh. The United States, meanwhile, picked up another ally in its military thrust against Iraq with Defense Secretary Dick Cheney's announcement today that U.S. C-130 cargo transports have begun operating from the United Arab Emirates. Cheney's statement in Abu Dhabi marked an important show of cooperation from a gulf nation with international efforts to force Iraq out of Kuwait. Also today, OPEC said there was not enough support among its members to call an emergency meeting to consider Saudi Arabia's request to boost oil production. A brief statement said OPEC's president would meet with some other oil ministers before the end of the month. Saudi Arabia said Saturday it would boost oil production by as much as 2 million barrels a day. Iraq said today that diplomats who fail to close their missions in Kuwait by Friday will be treated as any other foreign citizen. But in London, the Foreign office said Britain will attempt to keep an embassy in Kuwait. Austria, Britain, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Sweden, and West Germany said they had no plans to close their missions in Kuwait. The Iraqi radio message, monitored in Nicosia, warned Iraqi citizens against secretly sheltering foreigners to protect them. ``Hosting a foreigner in an Iraqi's place of residence is considered a flagrant violation of the law, for which the severest punishments will be given,'' it said. It said the law applied ``with (Iraq's) entire administrative border'' _ apparently including annexed Kuwait. On Sunday, Saddam offered to free foreigners if the United States withdraws its forces from the Persian Gulf region and guarantees the economic embargo will be lifted. U.S. officials dismissed the offer. He later said he would free citizens of nations that remain neutral in the conflict, including those of Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, Finland and Portugal. They account for only about 600 of the 21,000 foreigners in Iraq and Kuwait. There was growing international anxiety over the fate of the remaining foreign captives, including 3,000 Americans and 4,000 Britons, held for almost three weeks. Saddam said Sunday Westerners will be held at vital Iraqi installations to deter U.S. attacks on the facilities. ``Our people are seeking to avert a catastrophe,'' Saddam said, in comments read on Iraqi television. ``The presence of the foreigners with Iraqi families at vital targets might prevent an attack.'' Iraqi authorities also ordered Westerners in Kuwait to assemble at hotels or face the consequences. In other developments: _The White House said U.S. warships were still ``shadowing'' two Iraqi tankers, which ignored warning shots fired by the U.S. vessels on Saturday. _U.S. warships off the United Arab Emirates were challenging by radio practically every commercial ship coursing up and down the Persian Gulf, shipping executives reported today. _Iraq said today that Indonesian and some Argentine citizens may leave. _China's official Xinhua News Agency said the first group of 97 Chinese would be evacuated from Iraq today, with Baghdad's help. Also today, 122 Soviet citizens crossed into Jordan, the official Soviet news agency Tass reported. _The British Foreign Office said today that 82 Britons were taken Sunday by Iraqi authorities from a hotel in Kuwait city. A day earlier, 41 British citizens were taken from the Kuwait International hotel. _Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal arrived in Damascus, Syria today to discuss the Gulf crisis with the Syrian leadership. _Two Dutch Navy frigates were leaving today for the Persian Gulf to join the multinational force arrayed against Iraq. The air defense frigate Witte de With and the standard frigate Pieter Florisz were to take two weeks to reach the region. _ Greece also said it would send a frigate. _Iraqi soldiers today continued their withdrawal from occupied Iranian territory, the official Iranian news agency said, freeing up thousands of battle-hardened troops to face U.S. forces. Iraq and Iran were also repatriating prisoners from their eight-year war, which effectively ended with a cease-fire in August of 1988. _Iranian newspapers today attacked the U.S. military presence in Saudi Arabia. The Jomhuri Islami said in an editorial the United States had virtually annexed Saudi Arabia, just as Iraq did Kuwait. But the newspaper stressed that although it opposes the U.S. military presence, it also opposes the Iraqi takeover of Kuwait. United Arab Emirates, an alliance comprising seven sheikdoms, today became the first of the moderate Arab governments in the southern gulf region to publicly announce overt military cooperation with the United States. On Sunday, the United Arab Emirates announced it would allow the deployment of Arab and ``friendly'' forces on its territory as part of multinational efforts to defend the Persian Gulf region. On Saturday night, the U.N. Security Council unanimously demanded that Iraq let all foreigners held in Iraq and Kuwait leave. CBS News said from Baghdad that 35 Americans, including four women and three children, took refuge at U.S. diplomatic ``quarters'' in the Iraqi capital Sunday. Asked about the report, a spokesman at the State Department said: ``We can't make a comment on that at this time.''
AP880513-0093 	X	A $76,000 appropriation for ``fuel management systems'' at two highway patrol stations raised eyebrows at a meeting of the state Building Commission. ``What's a fuel management system?'' Lt. Gov. John Wilder, commission vice chairman, asked Thursday. ``That's a gasoline pump,'' replied Safety Commissioner Robert Lawson. ``And you call it a fuel management system?'' Wilder asked. ``Yes,'' Lawson said. ``You're pumping gasoline into a vehicle?'' Wilder asked. ``Yes,'' Lawson said. ``Why don't you call it that?'' Wilder asked. ``I won't use the term again,'' Lawson promised.
AP880801-0115 	X	Syndicated columnist Carl T. Rowan, calling himself a pawn in a larger gun-control debate, pleaded innocent Monday to charges he used an unregistered weapon to shoot a teen-ager who took an uninvited dip in his backyard pool. Rowan has been charged with one count each of possessing an unregistered weapon, and possessing ammunition for the gun, in connection with the June 14 shooting. Both are misdemeanors. District of Columbia Superior Court Hearing Commissioner Kaye Christian scheduled trial for Sept. 22, and released Rowan on his own recognizance. Rowan requested a jury trial. If he is convicted on both charges, the columnist could face a maximum penalty of two years in prison and a $2,000 fine. The district's 1976 handgun ordinance essentially bans posession of handguns and ammunition not owned at the time the law was passed, except for law officers. After his court appearance, Rowan lashed out at those who say he is hypocritical for using a handgun. ``I am aware that I am the pawn in a brutal game between those who favor and those who oppose handgun control,'' Rowan said, reading a prepared statement to dozens of reporters and television camera crews. ``I want to make it clear that I still favor a strict national law to control the availability of handguns. ``There is no hypocrisy in advocating a national policy that no one seems to be able to get through Congress,'' he said. The columnist also asserted that he has received additional death threats since the shooting incident. He had previously told police that he obtained the weapon used in the shooting after receiving similar threats in 1982. Rowan has said that the gun and ammunition were originally owned by his son, Carl Jr., who was told that he did not need to register them because he was serving as an FBI agent at the time. Outside the courthouse, a half-dozen handgun advocates rallied in support of the columnist's right to bear arms. ``We think that Carl Rowan may be guilty of raving hypocrisy, but he shouldn't be charged in a court of law today for protecting his home with a gun,'' said Lee Bellinger, the leader of Action for America, a conservative activist group that champions the right to private handgun ownership. ``We welcome him into the family of people protecting their home with guns.'' Other supporters carried posters reading, ``Warning: This home protected by Carl Rowan,'' coupled with a Rambo-like drawing of Rowan's head atop a muscle-bound, gun-toting torso. Still others displayed signs reading, ``Leave Carl Rowan alone.'' ``It (the Rowan shooting) shows what can happen in a moment of panic,'' said Sarah Brady, wife of James Brady, President Reagan's press secretary. She was not at the rally, but said in a telephone interview, ``With the handgun, in most cases you see more cases of misuse than you do anything else.'' Brady became president of Handgun Control, an anti-handgun group, after her husband suffered permanent brain damage when he was wounded during John Hinckley Jr.'s attempt to assassinate Reagan in 1981. Rowan, 62, was cleared last month of assault charges in the shooting incident after an investigation by federal prosecutors. U.S. Attorney Jay Stephens said at the time that he thought Rowan should be prosecuted on the weapons charges, but deferred that decision to District of Columbia officials, who normally decide whether to prosecute such cases. The shooting occurred, Rowan said, when he heard noises in his backyard, called police, and discovered Benjamin Smith, 18, of suburban Chevy Chase, Md., and three other youths by his pool. Rowan shot Smith in the wrist when, he said, the youth lunged at him. Smith and a companion Laura Bachman, 19, were charged with unlawful entry, but prosecutors dropped the misdemeanor charges in exchange for 40 hours of community service work.
AP900112-0052 	X	Opposition leaders and Communist officials have tentatively set national elections for June, government television reported. ``According to unofficial information, the first round of (parliamentary) elections should take place on June 8,'' Czechoslovak TV said Thursday. The report came as the Communists, other political parties and the opposition Civic Forum met to review procedures for the elections and the status of independent political parties. ``The draft elections law is aimed at having the elections for the Federal Assembly and both National Councils (parliament) first ... and in the second half of the year the elections to the lower levels of representative bodies should take place,'' the television said. The 35O-member Czechoslovak Parliament is so far dominated by Communists. The discussions are expected to produce a solution to balancing its membership to reflect the current political situation. The talks are being attended by all five political parties existing before the revolution and the loosely organized opposition group, Civic Forum. About 20 new political parties have been created in Czechoslovakia the past two months, but none is represented at the current talks. The peaceful revolution in Czechoslovakia led to the ouster of Communist party chief Milos Jakes and his hard-line colleagues in late November. Dissident playwright Vaclav Havel became president last month.
AP900712-0125 	X	Here are highlights of Thursday's session of the 28th Communist Party congress, its 10th day. The congress is scheduled to continue Friday.
AP880226-0054 	X	U.S. Rep. James A. Traficant Jr., whose avowed campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination has yet to take shape, has failed to make the ballot in two more Ohio congressional districts. The problems disclosed Thursday brought to four the number of Ohio districts in which Traficant's name will not be on the ballot. Ohio has 21 congressional districts. In the sprawling 6th District of Southern Ohio, Traficant needed 150 signatures, and 159 were submitted. Every signature was ruled invalid, said Nancy Stapleton, director of the Warren County Board of Elections. Elections officials in the 2nd District in suburban Cincinnati said Thursday that Traficant did not meet petition requirements there, either. Traficant already was off the ballot in two other districts.
AP880503-0052 	X	The number of white blood cells infected by the AIDS virus rises sharply in the year before virus-infected males actually develop the disease, says a study that may lead to speedier treatment for AIDS victims. While the existing test to detect the increase in AIDS-infected cells is too time-consuming and expensive for routine use, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control is trying to develop a simpler test that could predict when an infected person will get full-blown AIDS, said the CDC's Janet Nicholson. Such a test would help doctors decide when the benefits of giving patients certain toxic anti-AIDS drugs outweigh the risks, said Dr. Paul Volberding, associate professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, and AIDS program director at San Francisco General Hospital. ``If we knew that somebody was getting close to the point of developing AIDS, we would want to treat the person at that point, even if he hadn't developed full-blown AIDS,'' he said. Nicholson, the CDC's clinical immunology chief, presented her findings Monday during the annual meeting of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. She and her colleagues spent three years regularly testing blood cells from 15 homosexual Atlanta men who were infected by the virus and had chronic swelling of lymph glands but didn't suffer AIDS. Six of the 15 subsequently developed AIDS, Nicholson said. She said in the year before those symptoms became apparent, the six showed a 25-fold increase in the number of AIDS virus-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells _ a class of white blood cells. If a simple test could show that someone infected with the virus soon will get AIDS, doctors could better decide when to prescribe AZT and antibiotics that prevent pneumocystis pneumonia and other infections that kill AIDS patients once the virus has crippled their immune systems, Volberding said. AZT, or azidothymidine, is believed to slow progression of AIDS. From a scientific standpoint, ``learning what a person's risk of developing AIDS is over time is a very important one,'' he said. But Nicholson and Volberding acknowledged that some AIDS-infected people may not want to learn that they soon will develop disease symptoms. Nicholson said researchers previously knew that people infected with AIDS show reduced numbers of one type of disease-fighting white blood cell, called T4-helper cells, while the infection progresses. Her study found that the number of helper cells decreases more quickly and the number of AIDS-infected cells rises sharply in infected patients who go on to develop overt AIDS symptoms. ``It's not clear yet whether everyone who is infected will develop disease,'' she said, adding that her findings point the way toward determining which patients are likely to do so. AIDS, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to death from infections and cancer. The CDC estimates that 1 million to 1.5 million Americans have been infected with the virus, and of that total, 20 percent to 30 percent will develop AIDS by the end of 1991.
AP880711-0068 	X	Michael Dukakis was back in his home base of Boston today, ready for a final round of deliberations on who will join him on the Democratic ticket. Jesse Jackson says he expects to speak privately with Dukakis in the coming week about the vice presidency. As the running drama over a running mate for Dukakis plays on, Democrats were preparing for the opening of their convention a week from today in Atlanta. Republican George Bush, meanwhile, was returning to Washington today after a weekend at his seaside retreat in Kennebunkport, Maine. Aides speaking on condition of anonymity said the vice president, the certain Republican nominee, was preparing to propose a strict new conflict-of-interest code for public officials. Dukakis has frequently attacked Bush over the ethics of Reagan administration officials including Attorney General Edwin Meese III, who last week announced plans to step down. Meese, who was under investigation for a year, declared himself vindicated after an independent counsel decided not to seek an indictment of him. With Meese on the way out, campaign sources said the vice president hopes to take the offensive on the ethics issue. They said he would spell out his proposals later this month. Bush himself was the target of accusations last week from Democratic Party chief Paul Kirk, who accused him of using public funds to pay for campaign appearances. Bush aides denied the allegations. The vice president's only public appearance over the weekend was at a Lithuanian festival on Sunday near his vacation home. He said reforms in the Soviet Union signal a ``time of hope,'' but warned against ``complacency or weakness'' in dealing with Moscow. Bush and Jackson were speaking to the same agricultural group this afternoon in Washington. And all three contenders had appearances set at the NAACP's convention in Washington, Bush and Jackson on Tuesday and Dukakis on Wednesday. Dukakis, who is struggling to resolve a budget crunch in his home state, was turning his attention to gubernatorial business today after a four-day Western trip. In a string of appearances during his last pre-convention campaign swing, Dukakis took Bush to task on a variety of issues, from the Pentagon procurement scandal to the vice president's no-tax-hike pledge. Dukakis says Bush's support for higher fees for some government services amounts to backing higher taxes. Bush disputes that. Even as he sought to turn up the heat on Bush, Dukakis responded coolly to talk of possible convention disputes with Jackson. ``I think Jesse Jackson can do anything he wants to do,'' Dukakis told reporters in Estes Park, Colo., on Sunday. ``I'm going to the convention and I'm going to win it.'' Although Dukakis has the delegates to win the nomination on the first ballot, Jackson said over the weekend that ``my name will be in nomination.'' ``Let no one mislead you. This is not the time for the campaign to wind down,'' Jackson told his Texas delegates in Forth Worth on Sunday night. He suggested that some disagreements with the Dukakis camp would be aired at the convention. ``When you have unresolved matters, you have created tension,'' he told the delegates. However, he denied reports his forces might stage a walkout at the convention over platform disputes. ``It would not be to our advantage to walk out,'' Jackson said Saturday in Los Angeles. ``The threat is not that we're going to walk out. The threat is that we're going to stay and expand and build and grow and make a difference.'' Although Jackson has met several times with Dukakis in recent weeks, he says the two have yet to discuss in depth the possibility of Jackson being on the ticket. Jackson said he expects to have such a private talk before the start of the convention on July 18. The leading contenders for the vice presidential nomination are believed to be Sens. John Glenn of Ohio, Bob Graham of Florida, Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Albert Gore Jr. of Tennessee, along with Reps. Richard Gephardt of Missouri and Lee Hamilton of Indiana. The Republicans, for their part, intend to fight for a share of the spotlight during the Democratic convention. Bush intends to campaign next week during the gathering, but spokeswoman Sheila Tate says details of his schedule have not yet been set.
AP880905-0040 	X	``It is a magnitude that no one in their wildest imagination or scientific predictions could have suggested.'' _ Yellowstone National Park spokeswoman Joan Anzelmo, discussing a complex of wildfires.
AP900304-0025 	X	The Bush administration will unveil a national transportation policy this week calling for more local government and private help to improve air, ground and water transportation into the next century. The long-awaited outline could lead to more toll roads, higher airline ticket fares, increased gasoline taxes in some areas and higher bus and mass transit fares. Major elements of the policy already have been disclosed by Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner, who says he wants to ``remove the heavy hand of government'' from transportation industries. Formal release is set for Thursday. Skinner's department faces formidable problems: overcrowded airports with about 30 percent of all flights delayed; a maritime industry in a record slump; highway bridges in need of billions of dollars in repairs; and an estimated $1 trillion to $3 trillion demand for airport, railroad, highway and mass transit construction over the next 20 years. Skinner's solutions focus on increasing the nation's reliance for transport on the private sector and state and local governments by ``stimulating competition and allowing the magic of the marketplace to work.'' But Skinner has said the policy also will commit the federal government to ``fully using the funds that people have paid in user charges for transportation, for investments in transportation.'' The unspent $7.6 billion in the aviation trust fund, collected from an airline ticket tax, and the $10.1 billion in the highway trust fund, have been a sore point with transportation industry officials who say the money is going to offset the federal deficit rather than to help transportation. Some of the strategies Skinner has said will be promoted in the new policy are increased user fees, which he does not call tax hikes; increased private investment, including private construction of toll roads; extending deregulation to the trucking and maritime industries; and promotion of new technologies, including high-speed rail systems and ``smart cars'' that are less likely to crash. Major points Skinner has disclosed so far from the policy include: _ Promotion of a ``stronger, healthier partnership among federal, state and local governments,'' with ``regulatory flexibility,'' which Skinner has said could include new powers to levy local highway tolls. _ A concentration of federal assistance on ``projects of national significance,'' although the projects will not be identified in the policy document. _ Preservation of existing transportation systems, including the interstate highway system. _ A focus on ``moving people and goods _ not just vehicles,'' with promotion of high-occupancy vehicle lanes for crowded commuter routes. _ Encouragement of technology and innovation in all modes of transportation. Even before it has been released, the policy has attracted criticism, although Skinner is widely praised for undertaking the task. ``Flexibility sounds like a euphemism for `take care of yourself,''' Sen. Frank Lautenberg, D-N.J., told Skinner as the secretary unveiled a portion of his plan before a Senate appropriations subcommittee last week. Sen. Alfonse D'Amato of New York, ranking Republican on the same subcommittee, said he feared the new policy would not help the continued development of large mass transit systems that take cars off the roads and decrease pollution. Carole Perkins, spokeswoman for the Association of American Railroads, said the rail industry supports Skinner's efforts and appreciates his commitment to treat all industries evenly and get rid of unneeded regulations. But she said railroad officials are looking for specifics and that it appears the policy will deal mostly in generalities. Airline industry officials have said they would like to see a separate policy outline from the Federal Aviation Administration, since Skinner's plan will give equal importance to all means of moving goods and people around the country. One problem airline officials say the policy is unlikely to address is the need for unified noise standards at airports. The new transportation policy is contained in a document that has passed the scrutiny of the White House's fiscal office, the Office of Management and Budget. Skinner told a congressional committee last week that reports that OMB would impose significant changes in the policy were not true. He described White House changes as ``wordsmithing'' only. The policy is the result of 117 ``town meeting''-style hearings held in 48 cities over the past year. Parts of it already are being implemented, according to Transportation Department officials, and some of its proposals are contained in Bush's fiscal 1991 budget, including calls for airport passenger fees and other increases in revenue from transportation users.
AP900101-0016 	X	Westminster College, where Winston S. Churchill's ``Iron Curtain speech'' signaled the start of the Cold War in 1946, hopes Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev will deliver an epilogue. ``We're hoping that a world figure who has played such a major role in East-West politics would see the importance of returning to the place where the Cold War was first defined,'' college president Harvey Saunders said. Fulton, a community of 11,000, has asked Sen. Christopher S. Bond, R-Mo., to help try to get Gorbachev to speak at Westminster in June when he visits the United States for a summit meeting with President Bush. While out of office as Britain's prime minister, Churchill was persuaded by President Truman to come to Fulton to accept an honorary degree. In his March 1946 lecture, Churchill said, ``From Stettin in the Baltic, to Trieste in the Adriatic, an iron curtain has descended across the (European) continent.'' The phrase drew little immediate attention from the media, but soon it became part of the Cold War glossary.
AP880425-0289 	X	American business will spend more than $100 billion on travel and entertainment by 1990, according to an American Express survey of business travel management. By comparison, an estimated $85 billion was spent in 1986, which American Express says is one-third more than business paid in taxes. The travel expense figure was $2 billion in 1985. Nearly 2,500 companies were surveyed and 28 percent responded, says American Express. According to the survey, air travel accounted for the largest portion of the travel and entertainment expenses, 41 percent of every travel dollar. Lodging (22 percent) and meals (17 percent) were next highest, followed by entertainment (14 percent) and car (6 percent). In the future, competition for business customers will focus on quality of service, according to American Express Travel Management Services. ``The competition for business customers is going to be won on quality of service, not price, as travel vendors respond to a high level of consumer discontent and focus on service issues,'' said Tomasso Zanzotto, president of Travel Management Services, in a 1988 business travel forecast. Brian Froehlich, of American Express Travel Management Services, says, ``There's a definite interest in delivering high quality service to companies and their travelers. We understand that quality is directly related to our success.'' A recent booklet from the American Society of Travel Agents, a trade association, reminded customers to plan ahead and ask questions of their travel agents: What is included in the price? What restrictions apply on discounted fare travel? What about passports and foreign currency? Travelmasters, a Chicago-based agency, is among those who have created information services to help customers make decisions. The agency has a Travel Line for special and last minute details for leisure travel customers and Fare Update, a monthly newsletter for corporate travelers and a Travelmaster Market Pack, containing travel costs, tour information, maps and weather information. ``As our business has become more computerized,'' says agency executive Peggy Blitz, ``it's more important than ever that we give meaningful service to each other.'' In another report, Runzheimer International said business travel prices rose sharply during 1987, increasing by 16.5 percent over the previous year. Runzheimer is a consulting firm based in Rochester, Wis. ``The reason for the big increase is due mostly to rising costs in air travel,'' said Brad Burris, executive vice president. ``The airlines tightened restrictions for travelers in 1987, making discount fares less available than in the past. Therefore, business travelers had difficulty fitting their schedules around the available low fare flights. Air fares rose 30.5 percent during the year, according to Runzheimer.
AP880328-0072 	X	A prostitute who says she posed naked for evangelist Jimmy Swaggart will show those poses in the July issue of Penthouse magazine, a spokeswoman for the publication said today. ``From what I understand, the photographs will recreate the precise poses and actions that Jimmy Swaggart paid for during the long affair,'' said Leslie Jay, vice president and director of public relations for the magazine. ``I also understand that the interview will review every episode in the relationship that ruined this most powerful TV preacher in the world,'' she said in a telephone interview from her New York office. Jay said she had not seen the interview or the pictures. Swaggart stepped down from the pulpit Feb. 21 after tearfully confessing to an unspecified sin against his wife, family and church. Church leaders have said he was photographed with a reputed prostitute outside a seedy New Orleans motel. Debra Murphree says she is the woman in those photographs. Jay said she did not know how much Murphree was paid or about the editorial deliberations behind Penthouse's decision to use the photographs and interview. The National Enquirer decided last month not to use an interview with Murphree after she failed a lie detector test. She told New Orleans television station WVUE she failed the test because she had taken drugs the day before. Paul Levy, the Enquirer's senior editor, said Murphree's companion, John Martinez, 28, offered her story to the Enquirer for $100,000. Martinez has said he also tried to peddle the story to People magazine and ABC-TV's Nightline. Murphree, also known as Debra Arleen Hedge, has three children living with her parents in Indiana and an arrest record in Florida, Tennessee and Louisiana, mainly involving prostitution charges.
AP900221-0047 	X	A man sitting in his living room was shot and killed by a bullet that was fired through the floor of the apartment above his, police said. Vernon Russell, 76, of Greece, a Rochester suburb, was shot Tuesday, said police Commander Michael Murray. Clifton Jackson, 52, who lives in the apartment above Russell's, was charged with second-degree manslaughter, police said. Jackson pleaded innocent before Gates Town Justice John Pisaturo. He was sent to the Monroe County Jail in lieu of $5,000 cash or $10,000 bond. There was no dispute between the neighbors, and Jackson did not intend to shoot Russell, Murray said. He declined to say why the firearm was pointed at the floor.
AP900619-0081 	X	After six weeks of searching for 13{ tons of stolen coffee, this was the break authorities were looking for. A police officer became suspicious of a trailer that had been parked along a freeway for nearly two weeks in this San Bernardino County city and ran the license plate through a computer. The computer found nothing wrong, but the notion that something wasn't quite right kept percolating in Officer Tim Lane's police mind. Finally, on Saturday, he ran the trailer's vehicle identification number, and the case of the missing Folgers was cracked. The computer showed the refrigerated trailer was stolen last April in North Hollywood. Inside, officers found about 9,000 three-pound packages of Folgers, which was unloaded Monday. Capt. George Westcott said police traced the lot numbers of the coffee and determined it had been stolen May 2 in San Francisco. It was not immediately known why the coffee was abandoned.
AP880312-0209 	X	In other business and economic news this past week: _Mobil Corp. said it would sell its Montgomery Ward division for $3.8 billion to an investor group led by Bernard Brennan, the man credited with restoring the 115-year-old department store chain to profitability. _Italian tire manufacturer Pirelli launched a $1.86 billion offer for Firestone Tire & Rubber Co., urging Firestone to scrap a plan to sell 75 percent of its tire-making business to Bridgestone of Japan. _General Electric Co. announced a $423 million offer for Roper Corp., which only last month signed a merger agreement with Whirlpool Corp. _Investor Marvin Davis made an unsolicited $780.3 million offer for loss-plagued Lorimar Telepictures Corp., which had said it was discussing the possibility of being acquired by Warner Communications Inc. _United Artists Communications Inc. and United Cable Television Corp. announced a merger agreement that would produce a concern ranking among the nation's biggest cable companies. _R.H. Macy & Co. Inc. began its $6.1 billion tender offer for Federated Department Stores Inc. and went to court in hopes of torpedoing the competing $6.18 billion offer by Campeau Corp. _Dart Group Corp. abandoned its $1.03 billion takeover bid for Stop & Shop Cos. The chain is to be taken private in a $1.23 billion leveraged buyout. _USG Corp., a leading producer of building materials, urged stockholders to reject a $1.9 billion hostile acquisition offer from a partnership led by two Texas oilmen. _Canadian liquor giant Seagram Co. Ltd. proposed buying orange juice producer Tropicana Products Inc. for $1.2 billion to expand Seagram's share of the beverage market. _Farmers Group Inc., a leading insurer, said its board unanimously rejected a $4.4 billion tender offer from the U.S. subsidiary of Britain's BAT Industries PLC. _Colt Industries Inc., a large defense contractor, accepted a $660 million cash buyout offer from a group led by senior management and a unit of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. _Investor Burt Sugarman said two companies he controls had boosted their stake in Media General Inc. to 10 percent from 9.8 percent and would seek a shareholder vote on his $1.75 billion takeover offer. _Texaco Inc. asked a federal bankruptcy judge to authorize a credit agreement allowing the company to borrow up to $3 billion to finance its Chapter 11 reorganization plan, and Carl C. Icahn threw his support behind the plan. _The Supreme Court handed investors a victory, placing a heavy burden of proof on companies sued for denying they are holding merger negotiations after informal talks have begun. _A federal judge cleared the way for the regional Bell telephone companies to offer certain new computerized information services, including voice storage and electronic mail. _The U.S. Postal Service governors postponed a final decision on the effective date of new postage rates, including an increase in first class to 25 cents. _A federal appellate panel upheld a lower court's finding that there was no evidence General Motors Corp. knowingly sold 1.1 million 1980 X-cars with alleged brake defects. _Ford Motor Co. handed thousands of profit-sharing checks to U.S. workers as their share of the company's industry record profit of $4.6 billion for 1987. _The United Auto Workers union agreed to early contract negotiations with Chrysler Corp. and the two sides soon will set a date for the start of talks. _Cheating on federal income taxes has declined by as much as 20 percent, Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Lawrence B. Gibbs said. _Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III said the Federal Reserve should be independent, but the central bank does not have to be ``totally sheltered from outside advice or criticism.'' _The government said retail sales, boosted by strength in autos, rose 0.6 percent in February, following a January decline. _Wholesale prices fell 0.2 percent in February, pushed downward by drops in both food and energy costs. _A business research company said more than 2.4 million jobs are expected to be created in the United States this year, fewer than the 3 million created in 1987 but ``still a very healthy number.'' _The Federal Reserve said Americans took out $5.42 billion more in installment debt than they paid off in January, the biggest monthly increase in four months and the second strong month in a row.
AP881028-0212 	X	Investigators have determined it was a 72mm anti-tank missile that hit the fifth floor of the U.S. AID office, officials said Friday. No one was injured in the attack Thursday evening on the six-story building, which is surrounded by a concrete wall about six feet high. Henry Bassford, head of the local office of the Agency for International Development, said police told him the projectile was fired from about 200 yards. Bassford said the rocket damaged an external wall on the fifth floor of the building in a residential district of the capital. He said U.S. and Salvadoran AID employees were at work at the time but no one was on the fifth floor. No one claimed responsibility for the attack, but officials suspect leftist guerrillas who have been fighting El Salvador's U.S.-backed government for nine years. The Defense Ministry called it an act of terrorism. Military sources said the rocket, known as a LAW anti-tank missile, is a relatively small-caliber weapon readily available on the black market. It was the first attack on an AID office, but the U.S. Embassy in El Salvador has been attacked several times.
AP880922-0219 	X	Stock prices drifted lower today in selling apparently prompted by impatience over the market's recent sluggish performance. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 5.15 to 2,085.35 by noontime on Wall Street. Losers outnumbered gainers by about 3 to 2 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 488 up, 731 down and 564 unchanged. Analysts said the market's sluggish recent behavior apparently convinced some investors that stocks were unable to break out of the trading range in which they have fluctuated for several months now. They also noted an absence of conviction about the business outlook to encourage any buying. Some prominent analysts and policymakers, including Chairman Alan Greenspan of the Federal Reserve Board, have been warning of the dangers of revived inflation. Yet the price of gold, a primary gauge of inflationary expectations, has fallen below $400 an ounce this week for the first time in more than a year and a half. Similarly, brokers say, there is widespread confusio